index.md, before:

---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: home
---

This whole page is under construction. Alas. It will all be up to speed soon.

I'm a third year PhD candidate at Northwestern University. I like to yell about games and
gardening. My friend Slim recently sold me on the glory of [Pandoc](http://pandoc.org).

<br>


---

## Projects

Projects and Research

### AnsProlog Syntax Highlighting

Sublime text syntax highlighting package for AnsProlog. Free to use (MIT
license).  [Link](https://github.com/ethanrobison/ansprolog_sublimesyntax/).

### What’s the Worst Thing You’ve Ever Done at a Conference? Operationalizing Dread‘s Questionnaire Mechanic

Ian Horswill and __Ethan Robison__. Presented at EXAG 2018.
[PDF](files/autodread.pdf).

### A Sandbox for Modeling Social AI

__Ethan Robison__. Presented at EXAG 2017. [PDF](files/aisandbox.pdf).

<br>

---

# Teaching

Pedagogy. In reverse chronological order. Unless otherwise noted, my role was graduate
teaching assistant.

### EECS 348: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence

<small>Fall 2018.</small>

Fundamental artificial intelligence concepts. Knowledge representation, logic, informed
search, etc. Taught in Python. Alongside Willie Wilson.


### EECS 399: Game Design Studio II

<small>Spring 2018 (Instructor).</small>

Studio class for upper-level industry-minded undergraduates. Focus on scoping and project
management.  Taught in Unity3D.


### EECS 377: Game Design Studio I

<small>Winter 2017, Winter 2018.</small>

Studio class for upper-level undergraduates. Fundamentals of the game creation process.
Taught in Unity3D. Alongside Rob Zubek.


### EECS 214: Data Structures and Data Management

<small>Spring 2018.</small>

Fundamentals of data structures and algorithms in C#. Alongside Ian Horswill.


### EECS 376: Game Design and Development

<small>Fall 2016, Fall 2017.</small>

Game development fundamentals and the basics of game design. Taught in Unity3D. Alongside
Ian Horswill.

### EECS 370: Computer Game Design

<small>Spring 2017.</small>

Fundamentals and history of game design. Alongside Ken Forbus.

Commit message:

add deep learning essay for blog cred

index.md, after:

---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: home
---

This whole page is under construction. Alas. It will all be up to speed soon.

I'm a third year PhD candidate at Northwestern University. I like to yell about games and
gardening. My friend Slim recently sold me on the glory of [Pandoc](http://pandoc.org).

<br>


---

## Projects

Projects

### AnsProlog Syntax Highlighting

Sublime text syntax highlighting package for AnsProlog. Free to use (MIT
license).  [Link](https://github.com/ethanrobison/ansprolog_sublimesyntax/).

<br>

---

## Research and Writing

Publication, essays, etc.

### What’s the Worst Thing You’ve Ever Done at a Conference? Operationalizing Dread‘s Questionnaire Mechanic

Ian Horswill and __Ethan Robison__. Presented at EXAG 2018.
[PDF](files/autodread.pdf).

### A Sandbox for Modeling Social AI

__Ethan Robison__. Presented at EXAG 2017. [PDF](files/aisandbox.pdf).

<br>

### Against Deep Learning for Level Generation in Games

Essay written as a (small) part of my qualifying exams in cognitive systems.
[PDF](files/deeplearninglevels.pdf).

<br>

---

# Teaching

Pedagogy. In reverse chronological order. Unless otherwise noted, my role was graduate
teaching assistant.

### EECS 348: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence

<small>Fall 2018.</small>

Fundamental artificial intelligence concepts. Knowledge representation, logic, informed
search, etc. Taught in Python. Alongside Willie Wilson.


### EECS 399: Game Design Studio II

<small>Spring 2018 (Instructor).</small>

Studio class for upper-level industry-minded undergraduates. Focus on scoping and project
management.  Taught in Unity3D.


### EECS 377: Game Design Studio I

<small>Winter 2017, Winter 2018.</small>

Studio class for upper-level undergraduates. Fundamentals of the game creation process.
Taught in Unity3D. Alongside Rob Zubek.


### EECS 214: Data Structures and Data Management

<small>Spring 2018.</small>

Fundamentals of data structures and algorithms in C#. Alongside Ian Horswill.


### EECS 376: Game Design and Development

<small>Fall 2016, Fall 2017.</small>

Game development fundamentals and the basics of game design. Taught in Unity3D. Alongside
Ian Horswill.

### EECS 370: Computer Game Design

<small>Spring 2017.</small>

Fundamentals and history of game design. Alongside Ken Forbus.
