---
layout: post
title: "Month of Creation 2"
date: 2019-8-6
categories: creations
---

Story for today.
[Permalink](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cmq3ps/wp_you_live_a_full_live_many_ups_and_downs_but/ew481uc?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

---


There’s a bit of tedium to the very early parts of the game. Once you’ve gotten past,
like, three or four years old, it’s pretty straightforward: you’re a child genius who
knows all sorts of things and can play the piano and juggle and blah, blah, blah.

But infancy? Ugh, no, thanks. You don’t have teeth, you don’t have control over your
bowels, you barely have control over anything. It’s such a slog that the devs make you go
through the tutorial, every single time.

Again, though, after those first couple of years, once your body has figured itself out,
that’s when the game really kicks in. You get on the rocket sled to stardom, and it’s
only a few weeks until everyone in the world knows who you are. Reincarnating with all of
your end-game abilities is pretty rad, and you can really stunt on all the noobs.

As I came out of the womb for the sixth time (NG+++++, for anyone caring to label it as
such), I knew things would be different. I think it’s because the developers hadn’t
really expected anyone to play through this many times, although I’m not sure. Whatever
it was, things were weird from the getgo. The operating room was way bigger than I was
used to, and there were cameras everywhere. Not TV cameras or photography, flashbulb
style affairs—these were definitely CCTV cameras. Back in NG+++ I decided to play through
on hard mode, and spent my fair share of that life in the cooler. Would not recommend the
life of crime to anyone trying to have a good time.

These were closer to prison security cameras than anything else, but the room was
spotless and the doctors looked well-funded and interested in their gigs, so I don’t
think it was a jail infirmary or anything like that. The handful of medical folks made
Charlie Brown “womp, womp” sounds to each other—my ears and eyes barely worked at this
point, so a lot of this was conjecture, anyway.

They cleaned me off, and took me down a seriously long hallway to what would have been a
nursery anywhere else. Here, though, I was completely alone, no other infants around.
More cameras everywhere, and a lot of excited- and nervous-looking doctors and nurses
taking notes.

I spent a couple of months like this. Getting used to a new body is always a challenge,
and this time things were stranger than normal. I had picked “random settings” at the
character creator, but the last time I did that (back in NG++ or maybe NG++++? I don’t
really remember) things had shaken out okay.

I had too many… moving parts. I had the right number of arms and legs and heads and all
that. I didn’t have any tails or whatnot.  But I could do too much. It wasn’t just my
past half-dozen lives that gave me a leg up, I swear I could hold more things than I had
hands. That my arms seemed just a tad longer than they were supposed to be.

These feats of extra-normalcy never failed to rouse the attention of my eternal watchers.
Every time I picked up a block that was just out of reach, or held three rattles, or did
something just beyond the scope of normal, they all looked at each other, smiled, and
scribbled down a lot of notes. This didn’t bother me: wherever I was, it was some sort of
weird governmental facility, and I was surely some kind of weird, governmental
experiment. I saw this kind of crap back in NG++, when I decided being a secret agent was
my joie de vivre.

No, what bothered me was that a lot of the physicality of this life was unknown, even to
me. I had literally been everywhere worth going, and done just about everything (and
everyone) worth doing. I had been a monk for a while, and experimented with a lot of the
more fringe gender/sexuality/corporeal settings on the character creation. Yet, I was
caught off guard.

The seeming extra hands and longer reach didn’t bother me too much—I chalked those up to
either falling asleep at the wheel, or that weird infant perception where everything
seems kind of screwy. It was when they started running agility tests on me (yes, me,
barely a year-old), and when I actually started passing them, that’s when I started to
freak out.

I was literally years ahead of where I was supposed to be, in terms of mobility and motor
skills. I just sort of wanted to be a place, or to do a thing, and it happened. Instead
of the crippling boredom I had expected from the tutorial level, I found myself able to
read, and to write, and to ambulate and feed myself and all the things babies are
decidedly not supposed to be capable of.

Things finally clicked for me around my first birthday. I the nurses and doctors that
constantly surrounded me had started to give me what were clearly indoctrination
lessons—better than some I had seen, or created—which would have done a doozy on my
agency if this weren’t my sixth rodeo. They showed me a lot of pictures to try to teach
me what “normal” was, and in one of them a man seemed to be punching another man from
across the room. Then in another, a woman was reaching her had out for a can of soda that
was soaring over her coffee table.

What luck, I was a god dammed psychic.

It explained my mobility and extra dexterity: I wasn’t picking things up with super-baby
hands; instead, I was using my brain the whole time. I was probably sticking my hands
either reflexively (after all, baby bodies aren’t supposed to be telekinetic) or out of
habit (since this wasn’t exactly my first time “learning” to pick stuff up). Either way,
I had serious skills.

Life started to look up once I figured this out. I learned that I could open doors (even
locked ones) by moving their handles from the open side. I could twist security cameras
around, or stick rags over their lenses until I was passed.  Whoever had designed the
facility’s security had done a good job, but they’d been designing for normal people, and
that, my friends, I was not.

Not entirely, anyway. But I was still a baby, which did mean a lot of trouble when it
came to, you know, baby stuff. Diapers were still a necessity, and I got hungry and tired
more often than I really wanted to. Whatever frustration the staff caused by being in my
way, there wasn’t much that I could do about the fact that I still needed to take a nap
every late afternoon.

All of this was awesome—I was expecting the first couple of years to be the doldrums,
just like they always were, and here I was, able to practically noclip my way around a
sick government facility after barely a year. The people working there last their minds,
of course, but we weren’t exactly on the same team. I was having a good time. They could
watch. The only real obstacle to get over was the fact that I didn’t think they would
appreciate me disappearing, and I certainly didn’t want to stick around the facility
forever…
