---
layout: post
title: Month of Creation 10
date: 2019-8-14
categories: creations
---

[Permanlink](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cqcd21/wp_dragons_were_bloodthirsty_nightmares_a_blight/eww41ca?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

# Story

Immortality is a damnedly permanent thing.

I sat at my desk, scrolling over content that I didn't read so much as bathe in. The
clock on the wall said 11:31. Too early to go to lunch. Too early to pack up to go home.
The clock in the corner of my screen agreed. The bastards conspired against me,
determined to maintain an accurate account of my sentence.

Eight hours a day, five days a week I rode my bike into work. I rode my bike because we
doctor told me that I was at risk of a heart attack if I kept up my "grossly unhealthy
habits." A heart attack wouldn't kill me, but it would really ruin my week.

Every day I rode my bike in, and I rode past other people on their way to their shitty
jobs. They would spend eight hours working towards someone else's goal, and then they
would go home. At home their lack of fulfillment wouldn't change—they would still hate
everything—but at least they wouldn't have to wear pants.

Every day I rode my bike in, and I thought about what it would mean to find a job that I
cared about. What would it look like to find something, anything, that would make getting
up in the morning matter. Maybe my first thought of the day wouldn't be how delightful a
rope or a bottle of pills would be. Maybe I wouldn't spend my evenings dreading the next
day's work, or my commutes home dreading having to cook, since cooking meant sustenance,
and sustenance meant survival, and survival meant prolonging. Maybe I wouldn't envy those
who seemed to be too dumb to know that they were mindless sheep, or those who were more
than clever enough to have jobs that didn't make them feel like mindless sheep. Maybe, if
I were younger, I could get a job as a professional courier, or someone who needed to
bike around a lot. But I wasn't younger, and I certainly wasn't in shape to do something
like that. In any case, I'm not sure that a new occupation would have made me hate life
any less; rather, I would just have a different set of things to hate. The last 1100
years had seen me through a lot of shitty jobs, and none of them had given me any
fulfillment. Nothing gave me fulfillment anymore.

Every day I rode my bike in.

It was around the 19th century that people put words to my craving for death. They called
themselves "existentialists", and they spent a lot of time thinking about how we,
residents of this pisshole planet, might give ourselves something to think about instead
of the fact that our bodies are made of meat and our minds of mush. Some of them said
that life was inherently meaningless, but they weren't particularly original. People have
been taking a crap on life for a long time. No, it wasn't enough to be Diogenes. A bunch
of others said that life was what you made of it. And they weren't being hippy-dippy;
they thought life was what you made of it, and that was a fuck of a lot of
responsibility. To paraphrase an alcohic equine, "I can't be responsible for my own
happiness; I can barely be responsible for my own breakfast."

No, there is no joy to be found in life, unless you're willing to pump it right the
christ in there yourself. For me, my "purpose" was assigned to me when I swore to kill
the dragons to the last. Those foul wyrms and their reign of terror were sufficiently
motivational that I didn't worry about having joy—I just wanted to ensure that others
could have a moment's peace. Now look at me: there hasn't been a dragon in something like
five hundred years, and what the fuck am I still doing alive? No one's weeping over
bodies slain by dragons—they have their own modern dragons to grapple with and there are
plenty of bodies to weep over from there.

So, there I was, coasting through life and hoping for something potent enough to kill an
immortal. Laziness, ineptitude, or a situation within a system that didn't give a shit
about me was responsible for my position: an immortal knight with a relentless cause,
forced to work a crummy office job to keep the lights on.

I could well have starved—I wouldn't die, in any case—but hunger had a tendency to bother
me, so I swung pretty hard the other way and that's why my doctor was always having a
hissy fit.

And that's where I was, pissing in my own cheerios, when the alarm finally rang. There
was a dragon to slay. There was finally something that might kill me. I reached under my
desk and found where I had stashed my sword, and then I got up and lumbered out into the
parking lot.

It took me a few minutes to walk down there (why the hell did I work in a building with
such a crummy elevator?), and by the time I arrived the dragon had done a number on most
of the cars in the lot. I raised my sword high above my head, and I dully recited the
ancient rites of war:

"Oh, foul beast, prepare yourself for a duel with he who bears the ancient weapon which
will strike you down. Your blood shall pool about my feet and my descendents will know
well who it was that did you in."

It went on for a few more paragraphs, and it didn't get any better. But, there were
rules, you know? Some people are sticklers, and being a pedantic asshole was about the
only thing that brought me any enjoyment, anyhow.

The dragon turned and roared in my general direction, and generally acted unpleasant. The
battle that followed was boring and routine—I had slain something like 150 dragons before
this one, and it wasn't as if they were learning any new tricks. Our weapons clashed,
fire flew about, wings beat great maelstroms down upon my puny visage, blah, blah, blah.
I cut off its head and said the requisite recitations over its stinking, steaming corpse.
More rules, more bureaucracy, and the motherfucker was dead for good.

Now, of course, was the important part. There hadn't been a dragon for 500 years. Was
this my ticket to finally shuffle off my mortal coil? Or had someone upstairs forgotten
that I desperately wanted my ticket punched? No telling how long it might take to die, so
I figured I would go back upstairs to eat my lunch. 11:55 wasn't too early, right?

