---
layout: post
categories: creations
title: Month of Creation 21
date: 2019-8-25
---

[Permalink.](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cveu8f/wp_two_genie_lamps_rubbed_against_each_other_and/ey3whir?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

# Story

The cave was dark, and silent, and wet in more than a few places. In its farthest
reaches, where no mortal had stepped for over a hundred years, there was now a great,
frothing cloud of smoke, light, and generally overwhelming physicality.

"I am Urrasmam, the Majestic, and I am here to serve-"

"Dhosteem the Graceful, at your serv-"

The two diaphonous beings stopped mid-sentence, not so much cutting each other off as
being sent into stunned silence.

"Erm, excuse me," they said in unison.

"Have you seen the one who rubbed my lamp?" asked Dhosteem, tendrils of smoke wafting
playfully off of their immaculately groomed facial hair.

"I was going to ask you the same thing, my friend," said Urrasmam, looking over his
shoulder and ducking through and into the lower part of his existence. The golden
bracelets and earrings he wore jingling pleasantly all the while (they were brass, in
realityâ€”he kept the nice stuff inside the lamp and only brought it out for really special
occasions).

The two djinni looked at each other. Through each other. Beneath and behind and above
each other. If there were humans around, they were pulling one heck of a trick. Then they
looked down at their lamps.

"Uh, is your lamp touching mine?" Urrasmam asked Dhosteem. They nodded, and leaned close to their own magical prison.

"And how, my friend," they agreed, "we're practically roommates at this rate!"

"You don't think?" he asked, looking at once doubtful and impossibly hopeful.

"I don't see any other way," they said, their smooth features effecting their own
this-is-too-good-to-be-true take on the situation.

"Oh," Urrasmam said, "I've got an idea. Wish for something and let's see if I have to
grant it."

"You... you want me to make a wish? One djinn to another? Isn't that... wouldn't that be
wrong?" they were frowning, but a touch of a grin played at their mouth.

"I don't have a problem with it, and you're... if you're my master, then you get to make
the rules, anyway."

"Okay," Dhosteem said, wringing their hands a bit as they whipped up a faux scheme, "just
promise to grant it for me straight, alright? Djinn on djinn is weird enough without you
pulling the rug out from under me."

Urrasmam rolled his eyes, grinning. "It's a deal, no funny business."

"Djinn, I wish for an oasis to form in the back of this dreadful cave. A place of warmth,
light, where savvy fauna might sojurn a while, and where you and I might enjoy a moment's
delight in the outside world."

For a moment, Urrasmam just sat there, his eyes still grinning. Then, his shackles begin
to shimmer, and then to vibrate, and sweat begin to bead on his expansive and majestic
forehead. A blood-red tinge crept outwards from his wrists. At last, he gave in, and the
magic poured from him in terrible waves of heat and light.

The roof of the cave was torn open, and water and trees faded into existence where before
there had been only sand and dank. A cool breeze blew around the newly-formed grotto, and
clear water began to bubble forth from the bottom of a wide and shallow pool. The magic
brought forth birds, and lizards, and other wildlife that might seek shelter from the
relentless sun of the vast and pitiless desert. Momentarily drained of power, Urrsamam
laid back to enjoy his handiwork.

"Not bad!" laughed Dhosteem, twisting themselves into figure eights of delight. "Wish
something of me, dear djinn!"

Urrasmam looked thoughtfully up at the ceiling for a moment. He cracked a smile, and
said, "Oh djinn, I wish to never be thirsty again!"

Dhosteem rolled their eyes, but couldn't help but smile as well. They spun their hands
around three times, and when the dust and smoke cleared, there was a tiny crystal bottle
suspended in midair between their out-stretched palms.

"Take this, oh, master, and know that it is truly bottomless, and you will never need
fear thirst again."

Urrasmam tried to look serious as he took the bottle. He failed miserably, and the two of
them were beside themselves with laughter.

"Oh," said Dhosteem, looking suddenly serious. "oh, my."

"What is it?" asked Urrasmam, his laughter cut off as well.

"Do you think..." Dhosteem said, their voice trailing off. It hit Urrasmam as well.

"Yes we could, I reckon," he said, scratching his chin. They smiled at each other.

"On the count of three, then?" Dhosteem asked.

"1, 2, 3," they said together, "Djinn, I wish to be free."
