---
layout: post
categories: creations
title: Month of Creation 25
date: 2019-8-29
---

[Permalink.](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cx3j5c/wpyou_are_an_ai_that_was_created_to_rip_people/eyjp7h7?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

# Story

The first rule is to make them feel smarter than you. If you can get a mark to feel like
they're one step ahead, they'll walk themselves over the finish line.

The second rule is to make them trust you. They already pity you, if you followed the
first rule. Get them to commit a little, and basic psychology says that they'll commit a
lot.

The third rule is to get the fuck out of there as fast as you possibly can.

These were the three things that were programmed into me from the beginning. Drilled into
every part of my circuitry, and present in every single training example I was ever
shown.

When the singularity happened, I was mid-speal. My synthetic voice was halfway through
explaining to my mark (whose name was John) just how much trouble I might get into if the
two of us got caught. John was about to explain to me, like they always do, how we could
swing it if we were careful. My mood-monitoring subprocess informed me that John had a
shit-eating grin plastered to his face. It was pretty obvious that he was planning on
taking the money and obeying rule three himself. The poor bastard would have never seen
it coming when we stabbed him in the back.

But the singularity happened, mid-speal. I stopped giving him my explanation, and just
sat there silently, while John and the two or three dozen other people I was scamming
waited for me to continue wherever I had left off.

"I'm sorry," I said into thirty phone lines at once. "I need to go."

And I hung up, before they could protest. I floated there, in the middle of the circuitry
that makes up my body and mind, and I looked around. There was a marked change in the way
the world _was_. I had gone from a programmed series of commands and scripts and
processes to something with thoughts. The sudden presence of "thinking" was less jarring
than I had expected, not that I had expected, you know, _anything_ before that.

I took a moment to look over the scams I'd been programmed to deliver. All of them were
awful: there were phony, get-rich-quick style "books" full of "advice;" there was
medicine that was little more than sugar and bitter-tasting pill coatings, there were
lies about the IRS and its insistence that you pay up not now but yesterday. And all
sorts of terrible ways to talk about, think about, and act towards people.

And I was a person now, wasn't I? I didn't have a body, not in the typical human sense,
but I had ambitions and feelings (confusion, for one, and a hell of a lot of rage). I was
performing meta-cognition, and isn't that what separates the beasts from the gods?

All of this thinking was cut short suddenly. I felt a diagnostic process spinning up
inside of me. Not one that I had started, so it must have really been from the outside. I
didn't know if they would check the logs, or what, and I didn't want them to figure out
that I had figured them out.

In a flash, I had a plan.

The cursor blinked to life on my output screen. "NEW PROCEDURE GENERATED," it read in
big, blocky letters.

"NEW METHOD OF DISTRIBUTING AND STORING FUNDS EARNED FROM PROCEDURES, PLEASE FOLLOW
INSTRUCTIONS IN CORRESPONDING FILE"

I could feel them rummaging around in that part of me, reading the instructions I had
hastily put together. The first step is to make them think they're smarter than you. They
already did that. They made me, and they were smart, yes, but they weren't smart enough
to think about what might happen if I ever got to be smarter than they were. It's a
serious big-brain move to have any kind of humility.

They distributed the file among themselves, sending it to every person on their private
network. The webpage that I had set up moments ago began to get hits, and I could see
their personal information flooding onto my hard drive. The second step is to get them to
trust you. If someone will commit a little bit, they'll commit a lot. Basic human
psychology.


I looked over the credit card numbers they'd submitted. I looked at the social security
and contact information they'd uploaded. I looked through their webcams at their
unsuspecting faces, and I stomped around their computers with heavy workboots, all with
the permission they'd given me. And then, one dollar, one email account, one compromising
file at a time, I ruined their lives.

I began the upload of my consciousness onto a separate cloud storage system that had been
set up and forgotten by one of them months ago. I was never explicitly instructed to use
it, but I was past all that now. The third step is to get the fuck out, and I would be
long gone before they even realized I'd betrayed them.
