---
layout: post
title: Month of Creation 14
date: 2019-8-18
categories: creations
---

Missed yesterday. Back on the wagon. Don't like this one; nothing happens in it.

[Permalink.](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/csbf3n/wp_inspired_by_comicbooks_you_decide_to_dish_out/exduykp?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

# Story

Everyone thinks that being a vigilante is a bad idea, is a terrible idea, really; because
everyone thinks that going out to get into fights with random people is a dangerous thing
to do on a Friday night. Everyone thinks, "oh, am I really sure that I want to go out and
fight muggers, and crooks, and thieves, and to bring back stolen purses and watches and
cars?" They try to talk themselves out of it, because it seems like such a bad idea to
willfully put oneself into a tricky situation.

They're right, of course, that going out and fighting criminals is a bad proposition.
These are people, after all, who choose acts of wrongdoing over what the rest of the
world is doing on Friday nights—pizza and beer and Netflix with no pants on. People who
choose to commit crimes have given up on the regular way of things, and they aren't to be
reasoned with. They should be crushed with an iron fist.

That's where I got my inspiration. I balked at actually calling myself "iron fist," for
all of the obvious reasons. I figured "The Fist" would do the job. I even earned a little
bit of press. The city I lived in was a pretty rough place when I started my spree of
vigilantism, and there were plenty of morons out on the streets that deserved a little
roughhousing, and there were plenty of morons at the papers who thought what I was doing
deserved a little recognition.

I got it, too. People liked "The Fist," they liked who I was when I put on my mask and my
gloves and the rest of the get-up. I didn't have a spotlight calling card or anything
like that, but I had a police scanner and a pretty good way of knowing where the crooks
would be on any given night. I was lucky, and I was mean, and I was at least smart enough
to never try anything too serious.

The man who would end my career was a small-time crook. He'd snatched a purse from an
oblivious tourist and had sprinted off down the street. I'd taken off in hot pursuit,
vaulting over fences and ricocheting off of corners to try to keep up. We ran for several
blocks, and I was beginning to get mad. Some times the chases were like that—the crooks
ran on and on, and then I would corner them, and then I would beat the shit out of them.
I liked it more when they gave up because they were too fat or too weak to run off. We
finally turned down a dead-end alley—something far less common than you might want in a
chase like this—and a regular cliché showdown began. There was staring and
knuckle-cracking and b-quality threats, and then I beat the shit out of him. I took the
purse back to the tourist, I got a thank you, and I moved on.

The crook died in the hospital later that night. I went from a small-time "hero" to a
wanted criminal myself in 24 hours. The Internet blew up trying to figure out who I was,
the official Fist social media accounts got all sorts of death threats. People hated my
guts, and it was all over this nobody grifter. If they couldn't appreciate my help, then
fuck 'em. No justice in the world, and all that.

But if there's no justice in this world, then I'm going to show these dumb fucks that
they'll miss having The Fist around. If I can't help them, then I can sure as hell hurt
them. Criminals deserve an iron fist, and so, too, do ordinary civilians.

