---
layout: post
categories: creations
title: Month of Creation 20
date: 2019-8-24
---

I like the idea of space ghosts.
[Permalink.](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cv2aym/wp_to_save_on_life_support_and_rocket_fuel_nasa/ey1j3jv?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

# Story

"Hecate II, do you read me? This is a celebratory message. We've toasted your honor,"
Houston's voice sounds in my headset.

"I read you 5 by, Houston. Pour a glass for me," I respond, reaching an ethereal hand up
to make a course correction. The radio transmission is laughably slow. Four hours from
Earth to where my tiny vessel floats in the vastness of the void. We usually email.

My ship and its minimal equipment have finally made it into the far reaches of space,
near the edge of the solar system. Neptune looms in the tiny porthole of a window in
front of me. My landing spot blinks a gentle red on the screen in front of me.

I begin my descent.

There is immediately trouble. The ship around me shudders and bucks, a soaked dog eager
to get dry. The blue mass of Neptune shakes and rolls outside of the window. I quickly
adjust the vents on the planetward side of the ship, and double-check that I'm contained
within my harness. It doesn't really matter if the ship destroys itselfâ€”I already died
once, so another brush with death won't make much of a difference. If, however, I would
like to make it _back_ to Earth, I'll need to keep my craft intact.

I engage the reverse gravity unit, and feel the immense force of the anti-grav shove
itself up my intangible asshole. The wild descent shifts from a tumbling catastrophe to a
gentle cruise downward. I can see features of the surface below. In fact, I can make out
the landind site of Hecate I. Right on track.

Touchdown is like walking into a brick wall. Er, like walking into a brick wall when you
have a physical body. You know what I mean. The ship stabilizes itself and I look at the
diagnostic sensors. Everything good, as hospitable as it can be four light hours away
from the nearest person, living or dead.

I phase throught the ship's exit. Outside, all is empty. Neptune isn't what I'd call a
tourist destination. I can see Hecate I a few hundred meters away. I start to walk over,
looking up into space and daydreaming as I go.

I guess this trip is a rescue mission of sorts. If I can find the crew of the previous
Hecate craft, and they care to make the trip back, we'll be home in a couple of years.
The problem, of course, is convincing a ghost to do anything. We have a frustrating
tendency to do whatever the hell we want, whenever we want. Something about lacking
motivation/being immortal/whatever. Some phantoms, of course, are ghosts because they
seek vengeance or whatnot, but NASA didn't hire anyone like that. The Hecate crew are
pretty chill folks, I think. I met them once, a long time ago.

The sight of the old craft starts a chill up my spine, and I feel a creeping terror
spreading throughout my body. The ship is in tatters. It didn't crash upon landing; it
was clearly damaged after touchdown. I step over the shattered remains of a portable
scanner and look inside the old ship. The terror spreads farther and faster. Whatever I
thought I knew about Hecate I, I'm not prepared for this.

Strapped into the cockpit is a pair of human skeletons.

