---
layout: post
categories: creations
date: 2019-8-31
title: Month of Creation 27
---

Missed yesterday. Here's a quick one.

[Permalink.](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cy3vjb/wp_you_suffer_from_a_curse_anyone_you_kiss/eypxcp0?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

# Story

I was quite the charmer, really, before the whole frog thing. It helped to be truly
interested in what the other person was saying, and I was—and still am—truly interested
in almost everything, and everyone. So they fell in love with me just as I fell in love
with them.

When I became cursed, I stepped out of the dating scene for a while. You try turning
people into amphibians against their will (and your own, for that matter). And will had
everything to do with it. It was pretty clear from the witches sputtering oaths and
mumbled warnings that "true love" was the fulcrum on which this particular frog-themed
lever rested so heavily.

Did the person _really_ love me? Or were they confused, or overly selfish, or misguided,
or manipulative, or all of the other reasons that love doesn't work out. That's the
thing, too: it wasn't just bad people, people who were lying or who were going to be
unfaithful—good people, or people who were slow to figure out how they really felt,
everyone got a does of good old frogification.

There was an upside. Not to the transforming of people into frogs; I'm not sure if there
could ever be any upsides to that. No, the upside was that the curse was equally specific
about the means of triggering the transformation: a kiss. Not just a lame old peck on the
cheek, either. A real kiss, the kind that you give to your partner when you haven't seen
them in months and you just flew and drove and walked eleven hours, and they're so
perfect, standing there, that it's hard for you to believe in the reality of them.

It has to be a real kiss, the curse said. But real kisses are easier to come by than you
might think, so I had to learn to slow things down. There were men—and women, too—who
didn't get why I wouldn't kiss after a perfect first date, or second, or third. Some of
them left after that, not bothering to let things simmer for such a long time.

The simmering worked, in the sense that it reduced the number of people-turned-tadpoles
that I had to install in my increasingly burgeoning backyard frog haven. It didn't work,
in the sense that the people that I went out with kept, at the end of the day, turning
into fucking frogs. The true love just wasn't there.

It was enough to tear me to pieces, really. I kept trying to finangle the perfect
relationship, and I kept failing. There was something to be said for not shooting for
perfection, maybe, but that sort of advice works better for those who don't worry about
giving their significant others webbed toes and an affinity for flies.

It was a lot to take in.

I met Ramón a few months ago, and our relationship took a turn. He was pretty upfront
about having heard rumors about me ("people seem to, uh, leave town pretty shortly after
they meet you," he had said) but was willing to give things a go. I laid down my
bizarrely specific ground rules, and he was willing to play ball. He would always say
that the important thing in a relationship isn't how things start off, it's how hard the
people in the relationship work to make it something good. I admired that, I really did.

But, hard work or not, he still ended up a frog. I looked down at him, his formerly
slender body turned bulbous and a mottled green.

"Ribbit, ribbit," I said to him, putting him in the pond and wanting very much to cry.
When he responded, I nearly fell in myself.

"Look," he said. "I know that this is what some people would call a setback, but I think
that the two of us can work through this."
