---
layout: post
date: 2019-8-16
title: Month of Creation 12
categories: creations
---

I liked this prompt.
[Permalink.](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cra4oi/wp_the_grim_reaper_is_commonly_portrayed_as_an/ex3gm19?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

# Story

Mortar crumbles, and the torsion of a brick building causes it first to crack, and then
to collapse with all the suddenness of a bolt of lightning. When the ground shakes, when
it moves, those inside of brick buildings are as good as dead. But those who live where
the earth might shake, within the clutches of dark, clammy soil; those who reside in the
domain of the reaper of earth and of ash and of dust—they do not live in brick buildings.
They think that they can escape his mortal touch, his sudden and awful splitting of the
ground and tearing of the earth. But the reaper of the earth, he who sows from rock and
from loam the souls of those upon it, is not merciful. When the bell tolls, and the
metals that compose the bell crack under the horrendous bonging of the heralding of
death, how better to gather up the souls of the damned and the doomed than with fists of
dark, clammy soil?

There are, of course, those who flee from the realm of the reaper of the earth. They move
to the distant plains, or to portions of the coast that are more tectonically stable than
some of the others. But they are no safer here than they might have been there. Thrashing
rain, torrential floods, and the occasional veritable deluge—mortals were not made to
endure the force of the reaper of the dark and turbulent waters of this world. What once
sustained man now mocks him; even those who someone survive the reaping are left
surrounded by an endless plain of poisonous blackness—water, water, everywhere, but not a
drop to drink.

And so mankind flees once again, far from the floodplains of this world, to places where
he might build towering metropolises, where he can flourish and expand greatly in his
number. But here, too, he is not safe. For the reaper of fire, of heat, of eternal
burning and weeping and gnashing of teeth makes his home. He makes his home here, resting
patiently on the hot bed of black tar that his victims has lain out upon him. And when
the seasons change, the reaper of warmth becomes the reaper of bitter, frigid cold. The
irony that his wards would find themselves lain down for their eternal slumber, done in
by exposure when so much infrastructure surrounds them.

Some, of course, survive. Some flee in a timely fashion from the advent of these three
horsemen, they with their outstretched claws of mud, torrent, and fire. But even those
who are lucky, or clever, or an enviable mixture of both, are still doomed. For no place
on this planet finds itself outside of the realm of the wind. When the darkness of the
moon rests in the sky, that ill wind blows in from over the barren hills, and he, the
reaper of the wind, takes what few fools remain.

