---
layout: post
categories: creations
date: 2019-8-27
title: Month of Creation 23
---

[Permalink.](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cw7uur/wp_you_died_today_while_you_are_in_the_waiting/ey9lbi5?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

# Story

"Number 31! Is there a number 31?" the voice at the front of the room asked. I looked
around, confused. There wasn't anyone else in the sitting room.

I looked down at the paper slip in my hand: "#208", it read.

"Is there a number 31? Hello?" the voice called out, again. "Number 32?"

This was going to be a long wait.

The sign next to the window read simply, "You are dead. Please take a number and a
psychopomp will be with you shortly." Underneath it was one of those reels of numbered
tickets, red on a white background, shaped sort of like a tongue sticking out. I took
mine fifteen minutes ago, when I had stopped freaking out long enough to look around me.

You'd be surprised how consistent the "bureaucracy aesthetic" really is. Even in the
afterlife, they weren't too concerned with interior decoration or personal comfort.
Not with cleanliness, eitherâ€”whoever, or whatever, had sat in my chair before me had left
a dried reddish stain on the seat, and the other options didn't look much better.

There was a stack of magazines on one of the low tables, but none of them were written in
a language I could read, and they were filled with bizarre pictures of rotten fruit, or
cockroaches in wedding gowns, or other fucked-up stuff like that. So, I sat, twiddling my
thumbs and looking repeatedly at the two doors at the end of the waiting room's length.

One was marked, in pleasant gold letters, "Up." The other was inscribed, in
scratched-out, faded script, "Down." I wasn't sure that they necessarily mapped to my
understanding of judeo-christian heaven/hell conceptualizations of post-life existence,
but it didn't take a genius to figure out that the muffled screams of pain were leaking
out of the door on the right, not the one on the left.

I was still staring at the doors when I noticed the man sitting next to me. I started a
little, and he gave me a quick grimace/smile out of the corner of his mouth. He was
dressed entirely in black, and his worn-down boots had honest-to-god spurs attached.
There was a watch made of a glinting black metal on his right wrist, and he wore
pitch-black sunglasses despite the dim palor of the fluorescents. A wooden-handled scythe
leaned on the chair next to him.

"Howdy, stranger," he said in a throaty voice.

"Uh, hello," I replied.

He stuck out a rough-hewn hand, and I was shocked into offering my own in return.

"Name's the Grim Reaper. I'm sure you've heard of me," he said, winking behind his opaque
lenses.

"Uh, it's an honor, I guess," I said with some hesitation. "Did you get your number, Mr.
Reaper?"

I asked him that mostly because I didn't know what the hell else to say, and I was
shocked when he held up a a ticket marked "#209."

"Surely, I did," he chuckled. "I get a free pass to go through whichever door I want,
usually, but this is a special occasion, seeing as I'm going on vacation. So, I've got to
follow the rules, as it were."

I said nothing, and this made him laugh even harder.

"Listen, son, I've got something to ask of you," he said, leaning back in the
poorly-manufactured piece of furniture that served as his temporary throne. "I'm taking a
leave of absence, so I'm gonna need someone to pick up the slack. Usually, I go through
the appropriate channels, but this trip was a little spontaneous, so no one could cover
for me. Are you doing anything this week?"

I managed a choked-out, "what?" and the Grim Reaper grinned wolfishly.

"Great!" he said, and reached over and grabbed his scythe. "Now, look, when you get a
notification that someone died, just tap this button," and here he tapped a section of
the handle of the scythe that was indistinguishable from the rest of it, "and you'll get
zipped along. Do some reaping, and then on to the next person. Couldn't be easier."

He shoved the scythe into my hands, and then slipped off his watch, as well. He had it
around my wrist, and was halfway across the room before I could protest.

"Mr. Reaper," I called out, standing up.

"I'll see you in a week, son!" he said, and stepped through the door marked "Up," his
"#209" ticket see-sawing down through the air where he had stood a moment ago.

_What the fuck_, I thought to myself, as the watch on my wrist chimed.

"You have 2,314 unread deaths," it informed me politely. I swallowed hard.

"Is there a number 36?" the voice at the front of the room asked. I figured I could use
with some distraction.

