---
layout: post
title: "Friday Facts VI: 0118 999 881 999 119 7253"
date: 2019-2-9
categories: fridayfacts
---

Down to brass tacks.

# 1

For starters, I've been working pretty steadily on the game that I'm doing alongside the
students in the class that I'm TAing. This isn't the first time that I've mentioned this,
but the newsworthy bit is that I've been working on this project with a zeal that was
lacking in my research. In other words, further evidence that I was working on the wrong
thing.[^1] I love making games, and this is no exception.

# 2

I read Itay Keren's excellent [blog post on cameras in
games](https://gamasutra.com/blogs/ItayKeren/20150511/243083/Scroll_Back_The_Theory_and_Practice_of_Cameras_in_SideScrollers.php),
which was helpful in implementing my own camera work. Currently a work in progress,[^2]
but here's a .gif thereof:

![Camera zones!](/files/images/camerazones.gif)

This was shockingly little work. I'll need to do a blog post about it soon. That reminds
me: I owe the world a review of Gorogoa and also of the gotm Vagante.

# 3

On that note, I've sort of moved away from the gotm model on my stream, and am focusing
more on writing code for my viewers. Honestly, that mostly just means that I'm doing
development for my game while people sometimes poke their heads in and ask questions.
It's very pleasant for me, since all I have to do is explain my thought process out loud
(talking to myself) and answer questions occasionally (talking to other people, but with
no risk of having to be polite). It's a win for someone as loquacious as I.[^3]

In any case, I still stream live coding Tuesday nights at 7PM CT, and the second and
fourth Saturday of each month at 12PM CT. Catch me [here](http://twitch.tv/yikesdotgov).

# 4

I've been... tapped? Is that the word? I've been tapped to be the AI designer/programmer
for an as yet unannounced project with a company that I may or may not have already done
work for. Very exciting. The gameplay centers around social relationships, but that's not
to say that things don't get a little violent now and again...

Technical inspiration will come from Damian's famous [behavior
trees](http://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/130663/gdc_2005_proceeding_handling_.php),
Sims 3 (or 4?) style AI, and a couple of other robotics ideas thrown together. I don't
feel bad about being vague to this blog, since 1) no one reads it and 2) even if _lots_
of people read it, it would still be a place for me to just dump my thoughts.

# 5

I've started playing _Celeste_ as my gotm[^4] and holy henck is it great. It's got
exceptional controls, clear goals and consequences, and what may be the juiciest dialog
boxes that I've ever seen. The sheer number of text effects combined with how well
they're executed puts this game up there, even before the challenging and precise
gameplay that seems tailor made to me, given its difficulty and how it rewards consistent
practice. I love it.

# 6

I did the Strings Hell Ramen Challenge today. There are five levels, the fifth of which
is aggressive enough that you sign a waiver _and_ they warn your neighbors of the fumes.
I did the 3rd level. It was piquant, but I wasn't particularly overwhelmed. This is less
a flex than it is an expression of how excited I am to do the 4th level.[^5]

# 7

Playtesting starts next week, which means that I'll be putting my game in front of other
people for the first time ever. I should put it in front of non-students first. But
whomst to ask?

Playtesting is important! It exposes the weaknesses that we as designers didn't
anticipate or were blind to.

# Signing Off

It's important to push yourself, he said in a generically motivating sort of way. Until
next time.

<br>

[^1]: This isn't to say that _research_ was the problem.

[^2]: First rule of slam poetry: no disclaimers.

[^3]: This makes it sound like it's a feature...

[^4]:
    Not streaming my gotm doesn't mean that I shouldn't _have_ one, since the original
    point was that I need to play more games.

[^5]: It is, perhaps, a bit of a flex. But I hope you're not too impressed.
