---
layout: post
title: "Friday Facts III: Or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Red-Black Tree"
date: 2019-1-19
categories: fridayfacts
---

Down to brass tacks.

# 1

This title is too long. It's a hackneyed reference to a movie that I haven't even seen in
its entirety[^1] and it's going to run over into multiple lines but I'm writing this post
late anyway.

# 2

I spent a few full days dicking around, reading CLRS and trying to implement a fancy
version of interval trees in the form of augmented Red-Black trees. I learned a lot. I
learned that I truly love CLRS and that I have ambitions of going through the whole thing
on stream, one algorithm at a time.

# 3

I finished _A Walk in the Woods_, and started reading _Einstein's Dreams_. The former was
an excellent portrait of someone who discovered both that they loved hiking and loved
that they didn't need to be too serious about it, the latter is a (slightly
self-indulgent) exploration of various ways in which time could turn out to behave.[^2]

# 4

This marks the end (the last weekend) of the fourth week of the yoga program in B.K.S.
Iyengar's seminal _Light on Yoga_. The new segment adds pranayama, which makes it the
first time that I've done pranayama in my personal practice. It's a big deal.

# 5

_Vagante_ is just too darn hard solo. I played once with one of my audience members and
had an absolute blast, but that only served to highlight just how enormously frustrating
the game is under normal circumstances.

This is a marked contrast to _The Binding of Isaac_, which adopts a lot of 

I think that it's because I don't feel that I'm getting better at the _workings of the
game_. I might be practicing the particular patterns of a particular enemy (decreasing
drastically in regularity the later they are, since I often die in the beginning of the
third area); but I don't feel that my now encyclopedic knowledge of the shrines, or the
different upgrades, or the easter eggs, or anything that I've read online about the game,
that any of it is really amounting to much. Sure, I'm making it much farther into the
game than when I started. Sure, I consistently make it to my high watermark (as it were)
and raise it a little, but I'm just so darn frustrated. I think that it boils down to two
things:

- My now substantial (thanks to the users of the information superhighway) knowledge of
  the game merely adds to the _likelihood_ that I will make decent progress, since there
  is just _so much randomness_.
- I have no way to short-circuit my way to later parts of the game as a means of
  practicing versus the later enemies (especially the bosses), meaning that failure in
  late game often turns ~45 minutes of play into what feels like a waste of time.

This is interesting because it represents such a stark contrast to _The Binding of
Isaac_. I feel that I could happily play for half an hour in _Isaac_, only to be blasted
to smithereens by an item that I'd never tried before, because at least _now I know what
that item does_. In _Vagante_, knowing the types of potions doesn't help with the
specifics.  Knowing the scrolls, or the shrines, or anything, just lets you know that
they're out there. It's a staggeringly unconstrained game, and I just wish so desperately
that every run didn't feel like me up against a slot machine that dispensed either knives
or a wheeze coupled with a "good job, bucko, how about the next challenge?"[^3]

I like hard games. I'm fine with instadeath and I'm fine with variability. I love _The
Binding of Isaac_ and I love _Crypt of the Necrodancer_. I like _Dwarf Fortress_. I never
thought I would imply the _DF_ was a fairer game than **anything**, but here we are.

I'm only asking for a little constraint, _Vagante_. It's all fine on its own, but it's a
little much as part of the whole. Just, reel it in, okay?

...

That said, I'm not going to stop playing _just_ yet.

# 6

I've been doing an _Into the Breach_ 100% run on stream, which is vastly more satisfying.
I've gotten about 27/85 achievements (counting the 2/3/4 island victories as well), and I
am _loving_ it.

# 7

Streaming plans include a continuation of live coding on Tuesdays (and maybe Saturdays,
who knows), plus whatever game I am currently playing (I think I'll keep doing 100% runs
of things—I like being thorough). Ambitions of doing a 100% coding of CLRS starting soon.
A few hours every week should churn me through it in about a year...

# Signing Off

When I die, bury me in my stream. Consider me hooked. Until next time.

[^1]:
    I have seen _some_ of _Doctor Strangelove_, just never all of it in one go.

[^2]:
    Really, of how time could behave in another iteration of existence.

[^3]:
    This metaphor is weird.
