---
layout: post
title: "Friday Facts II: I'm Not Good at Plants or Email"
date: 2019-1-12
categories: fridayfacts
---

Down to brass tacks.

# 1

Work continues on experimental game jam game #1. This is still a calendar-based affair.
I've almost got the core loop closed: put events in the schedule, complete them, change
stats and relationships accordingly. There's no model of relationships yet, but I do have
a handful of generic stats.

Once the core loop is closed, it will be possible to put this in front of people and see
what they think. Feedback is always important.

# 2

I've been reading _A Walk in the Woods_, by Bill Bryson. It's hysterical. It also
reminded me that the _other_ book that I was reading wasn't very much fun. Remember to
put books down if they don't either make you a better person or entertain you. Same with
most things, I suppose.

# 3

My plants aren't doing so hot. I need to read up on basic care (and give them a little
more attention).

# 4

The quarter's begun again, and since it's Winter, I'm TAing for Rob in his Game Design
Studio class. As always, it's a pleasure right off the bat. I'm looking forward to the
two (and a half) mini-talks I'll be giving. We're trying to convince them of their sole
goal this quarter:

**Close your core loop.**

Everything centers on the core loop. It's what people pay the money for. Everything
simpler serves it, everything more complex is an extension of it. Core loop, core loop,
core loop.

# 5

I've started playing the _Arkham Horror LCG_ again after a hiatus and it is just as
glorious as I remember.

# 6

I chose seven as a number of things to update the world on, and I might stick with that.
It forces me to think about the sorts of things that have been going on in my life, well
past research and, e.g., what media I've been consuming.

# 7

I'm also taking a history of programming languages class. It's a fascinating combination
of, "oh, so that's where that came from," and "wow, they really didn't know what they
were up to."

# Signing Off

Close that core loop. Everything else comes after. Until next time.
