---
layout: post
title: "Friday Facts I: Experimental Game Jam #1"
date: 2019-5-1
categories: fridayfacts
---

# Context 

Inspired, as always, by the inimitable [Warren Ellis](http://www.warrenellis.com/), here
are some reflections and musings on the work that I've done over the past week. This is
just as much for me as it is for you (although, for now, it is mostly for me).

Down to brass tacks.

# 1

Started a new trend on [my stream](https://twitch.tv/yikesdotgov) where I do live coding
Tuesday nights at 7pm CT. This is (usually) instead of the game of the month playing that
I do around that time. The coding centers around creating classic games in the Unity3D
engine, since (1) it's what I know and (2) it's popular. Hopefully will be a resource for
someone. Regardless, it's a lot of fun so far.

# 2

After deciding to drop out of my PhD program, then having a lengthy conversation with my
advisor during which he convinced me _not_ to drop out, I've switched focus once more.
Rather than asking the question, "how can I push AI forward through games?", I'll be
asking the question, "how can I make weird games (that might or might not use neat AI)?"
In other words, I'm not here to push the limits of AI, or even of the use of AI tricks in
games. Instead, I'm here to make games, and if they happen to push things forward, then
so be it.

If, at the end of the day, I end up doing something that can serve as an inspiration for
future experimental game developers or students, then great. If my experience is mostly
self-serving and instead represents a period of learning and growth for me, that's okay,
too.

# 3

In keeping with the above, Ian and I are turning this quarter into three 1-month long
game jams. The focus is (vaguely) on using funky AI, but I'm not reading this as a
particularly strong requirement. The first jam is independent, the second jam will be a
joint effort, and the third is TBD.

I am so excited for this.

I love making games, and I love the idea that my time here will be spent _creating_ games
(especially, creating games that _I_ want to create).

# 4

On that note, I spent last night and this morning watching the GDC Vault collections of
the Experimental Games Workshop (give it a google—very worthwhile) sessions. This
inspired me to think about the kind of thing(s) that I want to make, at least right meow.

I also read the [Shenanijam How-To-Do document](https://goo.gl/vsqifa), which offered the
following tips (see the document for their entire collection of handy hints):

1. Make your mechanics action-oriented.

2. Give the player an in-world avatar.

3. Keep a maximum of 5 inputs for control.

4. Pick _either_ keyboard _or_ mouse controls. A mixture is going to complicate things.

Now, I've got a game (and a color palette, and a couple of other helpful doodads). Here's
the pitch: the player controls their agents actions by manipulating their calendars.
Dating, going to the gym, studying, working, eating, everything is done by putting those
things in the calendar. The agents perform actions as appropriate to follow their
schedule. Gameplay involves living many days in the lives of the people, forming
relationships, building stats, etc.

Put in a single sentence: it's a "real-life" sim where the player controls their
character(s) by adjusting their calendars.

Screenshots to come every __Screenshot Saturday__, and updates to follow in subsequent
Friday Facts.

# Signing Off

Remember to make your projects small to start with. Much easier to expand the scope.
Brush and floss if you can remember to do both. Until next time.
