---
layout: post
title: "Friday Facts VIII: Addicted to Starting New Projects"
date: 2019-2-23
categories: fridayfacts
---

Down to brass tacks.

# 1

My shmup (you may remember multiple mentions thereof in past posts) was going well, until
suddenly it wasn't. Partially, this is because I started doing _other_ work (research and
job stuff), which meant that I couldn't hack away at it with the intensity that I was
before (around 3-5 hours a day, 6-7 days a week), and partially it's because it stopped
feeling like I was making the game that I wanted to make.

That is, it felt like the game I was making was lacking the cohesion of experience that I
had set out to give. It felt like... like I was faffing around with the indiviudal
pieces, but there was no gestalt.

The question is: is this on me for not preparing, or is this an inevitable wall that I'll
hit while making stuff? If it's the former, then I need to just practice by making even
_smaller_ games (see the next section). If it's the latter, then I need to practice by
just _finally finishing something_.

Of course, it could be that this isn't the time in my life to do this particular thing,
but screw that. I'll make games if I want to.


# 2

On that note, thanks in part to Bennet Foddy's comment on his page for
[Flop](http://www.foddy.net/2018/06/flop/) and on the part of another couple of posts
that I've read, I'm making a very small dice game as a part of the Extra Credits
game jam, which is a 100-hour affair. We'll see how we do.

I have ambitions for this game, but the scope is enormously small. I'll host it on my
site (and maybe on Itch?) after the jam, so you can check it out, then.

# 3

I read a [blog post](https://kk.org/thetechnium/1000-true-fans/) on the notion that, in
order to succeed, you just need to acquire 1,000 "true" fans. That is, folx who will
support you for just being yourself. Other fans might come and go, but these people will
buy your stuff no matter what.

The post is interesting, even if it does reduce fans to, essentially, the amount of money
that they earn a creator per diem. The idea is, as is stated a number of other places,
that the trick is to find the people that like your shit, then to give them your shit.

If you're reading this (which, as far as I know, _no one_ is reading this), then you're
the sort of person who cares what I have to say. And you know that content will come out
on Fridays (modulo last week). You also know that I speak parenthetically more than
anyone ought. Etc. But you're here for my content, which is pleasant for the both of us.

# 4

I've acquired a new resolution:[^1] be involved in 30 games before I turn 30. That is,
publish or work on a total of 30 different games.

_Project Highrise_, and the as yet unnamed game, both of those count. This current
project (the dice game, not the shmup) will be published, come hell or high water, so
that counts. That leaves a mere 27 to go. We'll see how I do.

This number is inspired by a remark in (I think) the _Game Engine Black Book: Wolfenstein
3D_, in which the author notes that the makers of the game had something like 90 games
under their belts by the time they made _Wolfenstein: 3D_. So, I should get cracking, if
just to try the experience.

We'll see how I do, in about five and a half years time (see you in July 2024, for Friday
Facts 288 or something).

# 5

I played _Mu Cartographer_, and holy heck was it good. I first saw the game at a Bit Bash
event roughly two years ago, here in Chicago. It caught my eye because the controls were
_utterly_ esoteric. "And I fell in love, instantly."

I played it through for the first time a few days ago. While I wasn't thrilled with the
extent to which the game (I think) failed to explain itself, I do love that once I knew
what I was up to, discovering features of the game felt stupendous. If you haven't played
it, [check it out](https://store.steampowered.com/app/513360/Mu_Cartographer/). Full
review to follow.[^2]

# 6

I'm starting up another campaign of _Arkham Horror LCG_ with my usual group this Sunday.
We're running through _The Path to Carcossa_, which is a stealler trip riddled with
questioning one's sanity and brilliant manipulations of game mechanics that one thought
were familiar.

I'm very excited.


# 7

I've started playing Old-School Runescape again. Holy god, is it a nostalgia trip. For
all of its... idiosyncrasies, the game has a ton of memories stored in it, and I'm
looking forward to spending a lot of time on it, just like old times.


# Signing Off

Try to get enough sleep. Studies show that waking up earlier, having gone to sleep
earlier, makes you feel more rested than the same number of hours with a later start
time. In other words, wake up early and play video games and browse reddit. Your body will thank you. Until next time.

[^1]:
    I'm not usually the resolution sort, but this one is slightly different, as (1) I'm
    not telling anyone about it (assuming there are no readers), and (2) it's less a
    resolution and more a way of knowing I've "suceeded." Is that a meaningful
    distinction? I'm getting at the idea of establishing a way to reflect on progess,
    rather than a "goal." If I fail, that will be just as interesting as if I succeed. I
    think.

[^2]:
    Now I owe you reviews for _Vagante_, _Gorogoa_, and _Mu Cartographer_. I also have
    lagged behind on having a game of the month. Yikes.
