---
layout: post
title: Month of Creation 11
date: 2019-8-15
categories: creations
---

[Permanlink.](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cr0rjl/wp_you_are_a_lich_but_instead_of_trying_to_take/ex16awm?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

# Story

"Make $2,000 a week working from home!" the advert read. I smiled as I walked past my
handiwork. Well, one of my minions did the work, but I put the old Grug'vol Maaxzood spin
on it, you know?

Multi-level marketing schemes, sometimes called pyramid schemes by the savvy, and a
get-rich-quick opportunity by the brainwashed or the upper management; don't shake out
too well for those towards the "bottom" of the pyramid. Whatever cut they might hope to
earn is such an infinitesimal portion that getting anything like rich is a pipe dream.

"Max Zoods, Max Cash (The Hell is a Zood? Come Find Out!)" read another advert. This town
was nearly assimilated. We would be able to move on once the last few hold-outs—mostly
the paranoid, the infirm, or the darn lazy—were either hired or "hired".

The new recruits would go through the following process: they would see the advert,
having heard good words from everyone around them about the new company in town. Then,
they would go down to the recruitment center for the monthly initiation. Those who cared
to stay (nearly all of them, nearly every time) would be given a stinker of a contract
("Just wait to see what your profits are!" it would assert without substantiation). Then,
they would start work. They would sell and they would convert, and they would slave away.

When they had slaved enough to see some profits, the ambitious among them always asked
about promotion opportunities. We would smile, and invite them into a back room. There,
unbeknowst to them, the strange pattern on the carpet was in fact a pentacle, and this
time the contract was a bit more... binding.

Those who weren't ambitious, or who asked too many questions, were brought to the same
room. A quick blood sacrifice later, and the thralls that came out were almost as good as
real people.

We were making excellent returns, and our overhead was laughably low. Next month, we open
an office in London, and the month after one in Shanghai. Share and share alike, I say.

Oh, I forgot to mention. Pyramid schemes _do_ shake out. Just not for you, you know?
