---
layout: post
title: "Month of Creation 1"
date: 2019-8-5
categories: creations 
---

The first entry in my pledge to create something every day. This month is responding to a
reddit r/writingprompts post every day. 500 words or more.

Here's the
[permalink](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cm9ps4/wp_you_are_serving_a_life_sentence_in_solitude_on/ew2vr3l?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x) to my comment.


"There's something you should see," Double-L said from inside his helmet. His watch showed 
that they're somewhere on the far side of the asteroid. A forty-five minute trip, easily.

"Any particular urgency?" There were still repairs to make on the dropship, and the sun
wouldn't be up much longer.

"Quite a bit, actually. I think I've found a way out."

---

"I'm not sure this is a good idea, El," said Mark, looking down at what remains of the
wreckage. He's already made his way down the cliffside and over the most intimidating of
the scrap.

"Listen, if that piece of the engine works, and we can fit it inside you, or, or, on top
of you, or something, then our ticket is as good as punched!"

He pivoted his camera towards them, his camera lens unblinking. His legs clicked back and
forth, thinking.

"Alright, but there are some requirements, namely that we wait until we're on the right
side of the sun and that we have a destination in mind before we leave. You have a
tendency towards... improvisation."

Their hologram shimmered, and they scowled at him. His lens continued not to blink.

"The patrols pass by in something like fifteen months. If we can get a ship ready in
thirteen or so, we'll have plenty of time to hide it. We can think about destinations
afterward," they said, moving their avatar closer to his and gesticulating wildly. "After
construction, there's only a little bit of calculus to do, and we'll have CPU time to
spare once we're not working on our official jobs anymore."

"Right," he said, nodding as best as his neckless body would allow. "We'll have to double
down on power consumption beforehand, though—we can't exactly fall behind on work with
the patrols on their way."

They looked down at the glow escaping the metal plating of the ancient ship, the jalopy
from before either of the two of them had even been the sketch of a program. _Would it
still work?_ MK III wondered, deep inside his head.

---

"The plan is simple enough," Double-L said to him. "We need to gather a handful or
iridium from Site 1, or, several tons, but you know what I mean."

MK III said nothing.

"After that, the wrecker can be piloted around to the other side of the asteroid. Once
it's in place over the engine unit, it's a simple matter of up and out."

"Except, of course, for if and when the monitoring team picks up that we've taken the
wrecker dozens of kilometers away from where it's scheduled to be," Mark said.

"Only a problem if there isn't anything to show for the trip. And the old alloys from the
wreck's hull not only block out the engine unit's radiation, we can count them towards
our quota for this month."

It was January, which meant that they had something like eleven months to go. If they
managed to keep up the pace they had set out for themselves, there would be a skeleton of
a launch site put into place in the next two months. After that, it was a simple enough
matter to bring the wrecker around, pick the engine unit up, and drive it back to the
launchpad.
    Once the engine was installed, it could begin to accumulate the radiation that it
needed to be ready for launch in November. Except...

"I've picked up the signal again," Double-L said. MK III looked over at them.

"The one with all the beeps and boops?" He stopped what he was doing, and turned his
whole chassis towards them.

"Yes, the one with all the 'beeps and boops,'" they jeered lightly. "If it's morse code,
it's a helluva a message."

"You think someone is broadcasting... morse code? Across the wholeass galaxy?
Concentrated directly at our mining station?"

They looked at him and nodded. "Something like 'rm rf root', and then a whole bunch of
'reset' and 'who am i,'" they said.

"First, that's utterly bizarre. Second, this place is practically made to be
uninteresting. I don't see why anyone would take the time to try to talk to us."

---

Three months passed, and the two of them made short work of their planned tasks. The
launch pad slowly climbed out of the rockface, and the motor inside slowly accumulated
mass, preparing itself for its singular and abortive purpose.

"More of the signal," they said, a note of worry—if it could be called any
emotion—creeping into their synthetic voice. "This time, it seems to be doing something.
After the previous round of 'rm' and all that, I swear the signal from the far side of
the asteroid dropped out."

"You think we're getting jammed?" he asked.

"I don't know what we're getting," they said. Now he was started to worry. "All I know is
that we've lost communication there, and the signal from the monitors stopped pinging.
Either we're not getting a visit this summer or something's gone horribly awry with their
bureaucracy."

---

Mark had noticed, over the previous few weeks, or months, that it was getting harder and
harder to see. It wasn't as if his vision was going—he seemed to be doing just fine under
the bright spotlights they'd installed in and around the launchpad; everywhere else,
however, it was as if someone had taken the dial for power for the world and turned it
back a few notches.
    Double-L had noticed it, too. They seemed to grow increasingly distraught as the days
wore on, and he had noticed that their mental facilities seemed to be slowing. There were
things that they had forgotten. Pieces of information, or plans, or details. They seemed
to be running perenially at half capacity.
    The more signals, transmissions, that they received from the far off place, the worse
things got on the asteroid. Whole sections of the world were suddenly inaccessible to
their sensors. Equipment that had functioned perfectly had suddenly dropped off the grid,
unresponsive and inert. Trips out to their last known location yielded no fruit. It was
one thing for them to wander off, but to do so without a trace perplexed him.

---

Then the day came when he could no longer move. It wasn't that his body wouldn't move—his
legs rotated and clanked and shifted as they had always done. The world was a perfect
treadmill under his feet—every step that should have taken him forward slid uselessly
across the surface of the ground.
    The lights had gone out, too. Noise had picked up around him, idle chatter. Voices
that muttered and argued with one another.
    Double-L had nothing left to them. They had given up talking mid-sentence yesterday.
Shut down as though cut off from within. Now they sat and muttered something about a
"reboot sequence" and "factory settings."

Then, the world began to peel away. MK III watched in horror as the asteroid he knew so
well transformed into a patchwork of triangles and squares. The formerly
three-dimensional world slowly crumbled into an infinitude of polygons, flat and devoid
of life.
    And, as suddenly as the transformation began, it ended. MK III found himself in a
blank, featureless void. The voices continued from above, muttering among themselves.

"Clearly, they're both being given too much autonomy. He's supposed to move rocks for
eternity, not go buckeneering across the galaxy with his companion," the first voice
said. It had a nasal quality.

A second voice retorted, "it's not as if we don't have eternity. Let's just give it
another go, reset everything, and see if he bores himself to death this time around." It
wasn't nasal, so much as it sounded like someone with too much grease on their fingers
and a penchant for pedantry.

"Alright, man, give me a break. I'm hitting the hard reset button," the first voice said.
"We can try your settings, and see what's the what."

---

MK III was hard at work. With no one and nothing to distract him, at least not for a year
or so until the monitors arrived, the asteroid would serve as something to do. He sat
bolted to the outside of the wrecker he operated, and diligently directed his dumb
automatons around the pit that was his domain.
    Somewhere in the back of his mind, he was certain that there was more than this. He
pushed the thought back—there were strict quotas to satisfy.

