---
layout: post
title: "Friday Facts IX: Stay Weird (and a Moon Hunters Review)"
date: 2019-3-9
categories: fridayfacts
---

Down to brass tacks.

# 1

Let's start with the weird. Thanks to Warren Ellis, I watched this...
interesting
[video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7todzDDqpSc&feature=youtu.be).

I don't know that my life is better for having watched it, but I got to see it,
and now you can too.

# 2

I played Kitfox Games' [Moon Hunters](http://www.moonhuntersgame.com/), a
moderately procedurally generated "personality test RPG." Here's a very brief review:

It's a very brief, fairly easy hack-and-slash game with RPG elements. The "RPG" part
comes from moments throughout the game when you can, for example, choose to soothe the
cat or feed the cat, stargaze or sleep, listen to the elders or brag to them. The various
things that you do rack up, and give you stats and reputations. You might be "foolish,"
or "patient," or "brave." You could get enough endurance to make it through a shift on
lookout duty. All sorts of mundane things.

There are more grandiose decisions to make, too, such as whether you care to side with
those who would usurp the moon, and other such things. After all the main plot of the
game is that the world is ending in a few days, and your job is to make the most of the
remaining time by fighting tooth and nail to bring back the power of that celestial body.

Yet, all of these important decisions aside, playing Moon Hunters is less about whether
you side with the proverbial Empire or Stormcloaks; it's more about whether you're the
sort to listen to the spirit wolf's command to stay away, or challenge its authority.

These sorts of decisions have in-game consequences in the form of stats, battles, shop
availability, plot, and more. They also have end-game consequences: players unlock
"constellations," which are astral representations of their playthroughs, and the
decisions that they made. There are dozens of constellations, some of which are unlocked
by finishing the game with certain stats or reputation, some of which are unlocked by
making certain gameplay decisions. This multifacted rewarding of player choice is a lot
of fun, since it means that there are far-reaching consequences to, say, deciding to make
fruit salad instead of going out hunting.

Unlike a lot of similar games, Moon Hunters does a good job of trying to make it clear
what the player needs to do to get certain content. Most constellations are marked with
the personality required to unlock them. The ones that don't, presumably, are unlocked by
going to new places and poking things, to be found over the course of other
playthroughs. Furthermore, the consequences of in-game decisions are... mostly
predictable. There are times when guesswork comes into play, but since _every_ decision
has interesting and multifarious effects, it feels okay to just roll with the luck of the
draw. This could prove frustrating for the completionists among us, but it seems a minor
flaw.

Where Moon Hunters' flaws are more substantive is its gameplay. Certain things just
_feel_ buggy. Enemy AI doesn't always seem to do the sane thing (presumably, there
isn't much more than an FSM under the hood). Sometimes spells and abilities become
inexplicably unavailable to a player (is there a status effect going on that I'm
missing?). Content that is presumably there, per the world map, is missing from the level
itself. Etc. These bugs aren't earth-shattering, and since all of the results (even
death) make for interesting results, it ends up being alright in the end. But still,
these are non-trivial issues, and this _is_ a review.

All in all, I liked the experience of playing Moon Hunters. Its bugs and esoteric bits
aside, it's a romp, and the multiplayer experience is satisfying. There's a lot of
standard hack-and-slash killing that I enjoy, and it really does feel a little like a
personality test video game. It checks off a lot of boxes for me.

Grade: B- (I'd play it to show it to a friend, but it's probably staying on the shelf
otherwise)

# 3

I also started playing [Farming Simulator 17](https://www.farming-simulator.com/). It
involves a lot of sitting around and waiting. Apparently, it has an okay Twitch audience,
but I don't think that I'll ever stream it. I might play it for abnegation, and as an
excuse to listen to a lot of podcasts.

Then again, that's why the good lord gave us Factorio...

PS, it has [a lot of mods](https://www.farming-simulator.com/mods.php).

# 4

GDC is next week, and I'm going there on the [Train Jam](https://trainjam.com/). This is
the first game jam I've ever done in person, and certainly the first one I've ever done
on a moving vehicle. Someone pointed out how rad it would be to have, e.g., a conference
on an airship or something, and the whole thing struck me as very anime.

I would love to have next year's AIIDE be on the back of a legendary giant tortoise, its
every step shattering the Earth's crust as it obamulates the world.


# 5

Currently reading [Robopocalypse](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B074JKLQFQ/), by Daniel
Wilson. It's about, you guessed it, the robot uprising. There are moments (lots of them)
of faux action movie drama that frustrate me. There are also implications of vague,
"computer-y" sounding concepts. The characters don't have a lot of dimension. The writing
is sometimes stilted.

It has some bugs.

Nevertheless, the term "page-turner" has never been so apt. I'm super into it. Also, it's
kind of old, so you can get it from your local library without having to wait.

# 6

I've started playing Stardew Valley with my partner. The two conclusions are: 1) Stardew
multiplayer is _way_ better than single player, and 2) my partner and I apparently really
like games that invlove farming plants. It's been a win all around.

I'm trying to do all of the bundles, since I've never gotten very far in the game.
Hopefully, another person reduces the tedium of the mid-game elements.

# 7

I've been reading [Ben Samuel's](http://www.ben-samuel.com/) thesis. It has a lot going
for it, but one thing that stood out as particularly interesting was a definition of
agency that I hadn't considered:

> A game is said to have high agency when the material and formal affordances are in
> balance; when the game allows the player to carry out that which it suggests should be
> possible. A game with more formal affordances than material feels limiting, as the
> player envisions taking actions that the game does permit. Conversely, a game with more
> material affordances than formal can be confusing, as the player is capable of taking
> actions for which they have no frame of reference for their meaning.

It's not the standard definition of agency, which usually centers around the _choices_
that a player gets to make, and the impact that they have. Instead, it comes at the idea
of choice from another angle: is the player _allowed_ to make choices that they might
_want_ to make? It's the same idea, but its phrasing is different.

# Signing Off

I get to spend the start of next week going to talks on games. I get to spend the end of
next week faffing about San Francisco. I'm bringing my Kindle, my windbreaker, and a
staunch desire to eat weed gummies. Until next time.
