---
layout: post
title: Month of Creation 3
date: 2019-8-7
categories: creations
---

The adventure continues, on day 3.

[permalink](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cnapky/wp_you_wake_up_to_find_yourself_in_a_courtroom/ew9uyrn?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

---

# Story 
I opened my eyes and wished I hadn't. Whatever he was, he was a lot bigger and a lot
redder than anyone—or thing—ought to be. And he was holding a truly enormous feather in
what you might care to call his... hands. He was watching me closely, and scribbling
furiously on a broad piece of paper, or parchment, or otherwise. As he continued to write
I became aware that he wasn't the only one in the room with me, and that somewhere a
voice was speaking.

"... for crimes agains the Inner and Outer Realms," the voice droned," and all the
Numerous Nestings of Their Holiness the God Emperor Supreme, we the members of the high
council of the Court of A Thousand Screaming Voices hereby accuse you, one 'Peter
Carlsberg', of Fifth-Iteration Earth, of jeopardizing the sanctity and secrecy of the
unalieanable arts of ancient magicks, and of endangering not only the lives of many
mortals, but also the privacy and peace of countless more Immortals. How do you plead?"

I looked up and around. Wherever I was, it was obviously a courtroom, and even more
obviously in need of an interior designer. The place was filthy and bizarrely arranged.
What few seats weren't filled by a host of impossibly-shaped bodies and shimmering forms
were among the ugliest pieces of furniture I'd ever seen in my life.

Regardless of the courtroom decoration, and regardless of the lack of taste put into it,
it was clear that I was in a pickle. The faceless being that had spoken from the judge's
bench, and the numerous other forms and apparitions that sat across from me, were all,
erm, "looking" my way and waiting. I cleared my throat.

"Your honor," I began, and the effect was immediate.

"It uses sound!" someone cried in abject horror.

"The flapping of gums! This is no higher being!" someone else shouted.

The judge slammed their gavel down relentlessly. Each blow seemed to rock reality on its
hinges, and my head started to ache.

"'Peter Carlsberg', of Fifth-Iteration Earth," they said, "You will speak in Their
Holiness' tongue or not at all! This is my courtroom and I won't only such... sonic
blasphemy to taint it."

"Your honor," I said again, waiting for the cringing to stop before continuing. "I don't
know anything about a holy tongue, and I don't know anything about more than one round of
Earth."

The faceless judge looked back and forth among the assortment of preposterous and
horrifying beings of their coutroom. They made motions and noises that I seemed able to
hear with my mind, and they made a big fuss about repeatedly glancing at me the whole
time they conferred with the other supernatural beings.

"Peter Carlsberg," they said. "Do you deny that you performed ancient magicks in the
presence of mortals, and that you risked opening the gates to other planes of existence?"

"I guess so," I half-said, half-asked. "But the last thing I was doing was a card trick
that I invented yesterday, before I woke up here. So, unless you really hate legerdemain,
or maybe playing cards, I'm not particularly sure what you're so worked up about."

This comment, or perhaps its delivery mechanism—these folks really hated talking—brought
about more chatter, or telepathy, or soul-shouting, or whatever the fuck. I was starting
to get mad, and frightened. The shock of being surrounded by inumerable indescribables
had worn off quickly, and I began to worry that things wouldn't turn out so well for me.

"Are you not Peter Carlsberg?" the judge asked. "Are you not the great and all-powerful
immortal deity charged with the protection of your iteration of the world of Earth?"

I blinked. The bailifs, holding what were definitely laser spears of some sort, had
started to make their way across the courtroom.

"Uh, I don't know anything about immortality, but I do know a few magic tricks," I said,
reaching into my pockets.

"Magic tricks, indeed! You nearly opened a portal through to the rest of existence! Fifth
Iteration Earth isn't nearly advanced enough for such knowledge," said another voice,
coming from one—or all, maybe—of the plaintiffs.

The giant red thing wrote it all down.

I found what I needed in my pockets. I looked behind me and spotted what I hoped was a
way out.

"Like I said, I'm really just an ordinary guy. Magicians where I come from aren't much in
the way of... real magic."

On my last word, I throw the powder down in front of me. A cloud of smoke and sparks
erupted. I really should remember not to keep that stuff so close to my ass. I turned and
ran for the door.

Shouts of surprise and anger rose behind me. I reached the handle just as the bailifs
made their way to where I'd been defending myself moments before. I pushed the door open
and—

Bright sunlight and the feeling—and smell—of normal geometries smacked me upside the
head. I was standing on the city streets, where I'd been before all of the trouble began.
Behind, or maybe in front of, or maybe beside me, I could see the door from the courtroom
closing itself off.

I started to walk down the street. Now, if I could just remember how exactly I had held
the deck...

