---
layout: post
title: Month of Creation 9
date: 2019-8-13
categories: creations
---

I think there's a bit of a trend in my shorter stories. Too much implication, maybe? Not
enough? I don't have the damndest idea.

[Permanlink](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cpvhu9/wp_a_witchs_familiar_mistakes_you_for_their_dead/ewtijlf?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

# Story

The cat was dark and stout. When it mewed, the sound was frantic and the noise came in
pairs, a brief "mew-mew." there was a patch of brown on its chest, a dark coffee stain
amidst the sea of black. Tiny tufts of white stuck out between each toe, each pointing
haphazardly towards destinations unknown.

The first night that the cat followed me around, I left a saucer of milk out on the
porch. My old roommate had told me, long ago, that this was a bad idea, that cats weren't
actually supposed to drink milk. I figured screw it, if a black cat is going to follow me
around town this close to Halloween, I could be as clich√©d as I wanted to be.

It wasn't until the cat spoke to me that I started to freak out. We were out on the front
porch of my house, the sun setting off to the west.

Her first words were, and I quote, "you're looking plump."

I stared, my mouth dragging along the ground and the spoonful of ice cream halfway to my
face dripping into my lap. The cat licked herself thoughtfully.

I managed to choke out a single word: "what?"

She stopped her thought process and looked at me.

"You look plumper than a few days ago, that's all."

I looked off to the side, to where the cameras surely sat at middle distance, filming my
reaction as I got pranked. The cat was still there, still licking herself when I looked
back.

"So, anyway," she went on, "I was talking to Raistlin the frog the other night, and he
was telling me that there's a party tonight and that practically the whole coven is
going. I'm bored and we should go."

She was making eye contact with me by now, but still showing me her crotch and still
confusing the fuck out of me.

"I'm sorry, but since when do you make plans for me?" I asked. "More to the point, since
when do you, a cat, make any plans at all?"

"You know I'm an organizer, Mehreen," she said, walking across my porch to sit down in
front of me.

"Who?" At this point, the cat clearly had the conch, and it was all I could do to manage
to speak.

"Are you feeling okay? You've been acting kind of strange."

"My name isn't Mehreen," I said, realizing that my ice cream could probably wait and
setting it aside. "And, you and I just met, so it's not like you have a reference point
for how strange I'm supposed to act."

She blinked. "Sure I do," she said, "and your name might not be Mehreen, but you're still
clearly her, you know? You have the exact same scent."

"Okay, but that doesn't... what does that have to do with anything?" I asked.

"Here, let's try an experiment," the cat said, jumping onto the seat next to me.
"Concentrate very hard on feeling like you're flying. Like you're practically about to
float off into the wild blue yonder."

I don't know if it was the cat's words, or if this was all a dream, or what the hell was
going on. But as soon as she said that, I could feel myself starting to rise off the
bench. It felt like the whole world was a shitty minivan and god had just driven it off
the top of a hill. After a moment of my gut dropping out from underneath me, I settled
back down onto the bench.

"See? You're just as magical as Mehreen was. No one at the party is a stranger to the
passing along of souls into new somata. So, let's get going, I don't want to miss the
opening rites."

I looked at the cat. I looked down at the bench. I laughed a bit, almost cackling.

"Okay, kitty, let's get going," I said, and we walked off to join our brethren.

