---
layout: post
title: Month of Creation 5
date: 2019-8-9
categories: creations
---

[Permanlink](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/co8faf/wp_youve_been_kidnapped_from_your_home_where_you/ewhgznz?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

A silly one.

# Story

The van pulled up faster than he could react. The men pointed guns, there was some
shouting. And then it was over and he had a bag over his head. Lassie watched from the
window.

"Best friends are forever," he muttered to himself under his breath, and went to fetch
his equipment.

---

They took the bag off of his head, and he looked around. He couldn't move his hands or
feet, and he was pretty sure there was arope around his waist, too. Three shadowy figures
stood back and watched. A fourth man walked up slowly. He pulled up a chair, and sat on
it backwards, straddling the thing like a damn youth pastor. The creep spoke.

"This is going to go very simply," he said, looking at the young man tied to the chair.
"You're going to talk to your father on the phone. You're going to tell him that he needs
to wire $2 billion to the account number we give you. If he won't, we'll film you
starving to death and post it on social media every day he refuses."

The young man stared at him. He had received negative attention before; he was the son of
the most successful businessman in the entire country. But this bordered on savage. He
didn't know how to respond, other than to choke out:

"Okay."

The man smiled, more to himself than the boy. His teeth were enormous, and the shadows
from the bare lightbulb made them look more like fangs than ordinary teeth. Christ, was
he going to die here?

The four men looked at one another, and spoke quickly in a language the young man didn't
recognize. One of them held a flip phone to his ear.

"Hello?" He heard his father's voice on the other end.

The young man was in serious trouble.

---

Lassie looked over his equipment one last time. He hadn't used the mechsuit in a few
yearsâ€”there had been no need, not since the last war. He knew he was breaking a number of
agreements, that the embassy would have a hell of a time picking up after his mess. But
it didn't matter. What mattered is that there was a rescue to do. He had his nose, and a
lot more missiles than he was supposed to.

Timmy was trapped in a well, and he was going to do what he had to do.

