---
layout: post
categories: creations
date: 2019-8-28
title: Month of Creation 24
---

[Permalink.](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cwm8yv/wp_you_matched_with_a_tinder_bot_you_did_not/eyd86fk?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

# Story

For the first time, I felt like I was sure to get art. I wasn't the sort to understand
paintings or sculpture, but when I heard that there was a "Yesterday's World of Tomorrow"
sort of exhibit going on at the contemporary art museum, it was a clear winner. Dulce and
I decided to go for our third date, and I hoped to maintain the strong track record we
had kept up thus far.

Our first two dates had been exceptional: the first, she'd taken me on a trip to the
local arcade, and then out to dinner afterwards. I got my ass kicked—I'd swear Dulce had
superhuman reflexes—but I did manage to get a bit of a flex in when we faced off at DDR.
If I have one marketable skill, it's flailing around on top of arrows with lights
underneath them.

The second date—there had been coffee in between, but that wasn't a "date" so much as a
meeting of the minds—had been a trip to a dance studio. I'm an avid practitioner, and it
was my time to show off. We ate lunch after that at a sandwich place by the old train
station.

Now it was the third date, and we both agreed that a technology-heavy outing would be fun
for the both of us.

The neon lights and jarring sounds weren't the only assault on our senses: there was a
booth with a "smell-o-vision olfactory experience," and a tactile glove that made you
really feel like SpiderMan climbing up the rough bricks of a city building. It was a lot
to take in, and by the halfway point we weren't sure that we could make it all the way
through.

"How are you holding up?" Dulce asked me with a grin.

"I'm a little worn out, to be honest," I replied as I sat down on a molded plastic bench
that looked right out of the public transportation of the city of Atlanta. MARTA, in my
mind, encapsulated the exact aesthetic of "this is what the people of the future will
want!"

She sat down next to me, and her closeness was comforting and alarming at once. I looked
at her and smiled. Then I caught a glimpse of the monitor over her shoulder.

It was one of the faux "infrared" cameras, and it showed the room in stark purples and
oranges. I was a fireball (I've never been much for chilling out, har har), but I noticed
that Dulce was almost as purple as the bench she was sitting on.

"Look at that," I said, pointing. "Whatever trick they're using to figure out what should
be warm is borked when it sees you."

I started to laugh, and then noticed that the hidden vents that blew cool air into the
room were darker than the walls around them. And the displays bolted in various
configurations on the white-washed walls glowed brighter where the hardware clearly was.

"Um, weird," Dulce said, tried to make a nervous sort of half-grin. "Want to move on to
the next display?"

Now I was standing, and I noticed that the seat had a faint orange glow where I'd been
sitting. I looked at Dulce.

"Why do you think it isn't picking up your temperature?" I asked her.

"I don't know. I want to keep going, come on," she said tersely.

So we did. The monitor had been part of the next exhibit, a display called "Making the
Invisible Visible," which went into excruciating detail on electromagnetic radition.
Dulce walked over to read a placard and I put the headphones on at a station for showing
how radios worked. "See the waves around you!" its sign read. There was a
greenish-colored monitor there, and there were lines along the side that indicated the
corresponding frequency. Whatever it was supposed to be, it didn't seem to be working.
The headphones gave off nothing but static, and the screen was a mass of bright green
specks flicking up down and all around. I took the headphones off, disappointed.

"Hey, I'm going to go look in the next room," Dulce said to me. She had diligently read
the entire fucking placard, and I was jealous of her patience. The writing at museums is
always too small, and it takes me a long time to read any of them.

"Okay," I replied. "I'll catch up after I check out the bit on microwaves."

She stepped through the archway into the next room, and I turned around to pick up my
bag. The screen on the radio wave visualizer was slowly fading from a blob of green
specks into a few clearer lines. My interest renewed, I sat back down and put the
headphones on again, hoping to see what the public radio "looked" like.

I fiddled around for a few minutes before the staticky noise came back. The clear lines
blurred together until they were a solid block of visual noise. I felt Dulce tap my
shoulder.

"Hey, nerd, you going to spend all day at that one display?" she was grinning, and I felt
my face flush, half-embarrassed, half-enamored.

She walked across the floor again, turned around to face me. I heard the static in the
headphones fade. I looked back at the screen. Clear, distinct lines again. _What the hell
is going on?_ I thought.
