---
layout: post
title: Month of Creation 15
date: 2019-8-19
categories: creations
---

[Permalink.](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cslhv9/wp_your_life_has_been_full_of_hardship_pain_loss/exfld64?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

# Story

"The road goes ever on and on," I quoted to myself, looking down my dilapidated street at
the ramshackle houses and the queer way the sun had of reflecting off of the rusting
hulks of cars jammed every which way along the equally ramshackle driveways. There was a
curious, dreamlike quality to everything. The sensations of touch and smell came to me,
passed hand-over-hand, a bizarre game of telephone played with my own body as the final
recipient. Everything I had ever loved lay buried in my backyard.

Otto had been a hell of a dog.In the best sense, he had loved me in his own broken way.
In the worst sense, his numerous character flaws had been a reflection of my own. Helping
him to get through every day had been a proxy for solving my own problems. His vitriol
towards life had served as a stark contrast to my own apathy, and he was my little
four-legged crutch. Now, of course, that rat bastard had gone and died, and here I was
with no problems left to solve but the ones I'd carried with me since my childhood.

Alcoholism, a lack of a sense of purpose, a stilted way of interacting with others. My
problems were a litany of self-centered acts disguised as charity, and woe unto anyone
who might try to cheer me up. I was a sad sack of shit, and didn't they say they harming
those who care about you is the most comprehensive form of self-harm imagineable? When it
came to dragging myself and others down, I was the king. When it came to turning things
sour, I was the champ. But Otto, he was the one thing I couldn't make worse. So, I was
left with no choice but to make him better.

But, like I said, Otto had clocked out. A life of being so miserable that I couldn't help
but forget my own troubles, and now he was dead. What did I have left? I looked down at
the snub-nosed pistol in my hand. It had that dull sheen of an instrument of death. There
was the smell of gun oil, not just from the gun but seemingly from within my own skull.
It was like watching a movie of my own last moments. Everything still had that dream-like
quality.

I sat like that for nearly an hour. I suppose I talked to God, or whatever is Upstairs,
for some of it. Mostly, though, I felt rather than watched the sunlight creep from one
end of the room to the other. The same light that deigned to emphasize the rust on the
jalopies outside glinted dully off of that parcel of death in my hands. Dust motes danced
their Brownian dance around the gaping hole at the end of the revolver.

Something inside me broke, and I stood and walked over to the window. The creak of the
floorboards came to me from across an infinite chasm. The grease on the windowpane dulled
but did not stop the last rays of sunlight from echoing within and without my tired eyes.
Otto had been a hell of a burden, and then he up and left me. It wasn't fair for him to
do that, not when he'd already taken so much. And yet he had given so much, too. He had
been loving, in his own, dilapidated way. He had that doggy sort of grin that made you
feel damn happy, no matter how hard it rained outside. He had barked, more in indignant
excitement than in communication, when I came home from work. He had loved to explore,
and his curiosity about the unknown had come from a place of fear as much as wonder.

Otto had been a good old boy. 

The street outside looked different than it had before I buried him. It wasn't just the
passing of timeâ€”every day has a sunrise and sunset, and these serve more to mark the
passage of time than to embody it. No, there was something about the world that had
fundamentally changed. I looked down at the gun in my hand. I looked out at the odd old
world, about which I knew so little. I set the gun down.

_Alright, Otto, old pal,_ I thought. _One last time around the block. If there's anything
you've taught me about the unknown, it's that we can't let it get the best of us._

"The road goes ever on and on," I quoted to myself, looking down my dilapidated street at
the future this new world held for me.

