---
layout: post
title: Month of Creation 17
date: 2019-8-21
categories: creations
---

Helpful to write up a few things about the character/setting beforehand, even if the
audience never sees those tidbits. They creep in.
[Permalink.](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/ctqk5w/wp_it_is_your_job_to_retrieve_wayward_time/exmvbty?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

# Story

Max leaned back in his chair and propped his sandaled feet up on his desk, scattering
paperwork and takeout containers everywhere. He thought maybe he ought to tidy his
workspace, maybe empty out his jam-packed drawers or something, then decided the
president wasn't likely to come by, adjusted his poorly-knotted red-striped tie, and
scratched his ass where his sweat-stained shirt had come untucked.

This was the fifth all-nighter he'd pulled in the last month, but there was a lot of
money on the line. Paradox correction wasn't usually this hairy, but these morons had
gotten themselves splintered into something like fifteen different conflicting timelines
before they'd thought to call the hotline. One of his ads wafter down among the other
scattered scraps of paper, see-sawing before coming to rest, face-up:

"Stuck in a Time Vortex? Accidentlly [sic] Killed Your Own Great-Grandfather? Dial
555-DOC-BRWN and We'll Be There Before You Know it (Literally!)"

Max looked around his cramped office. It was a cheap lease, tucked between a short
(physically) office building and a long (temporally) beauty salon. There were thirty-two
wormholes in, and something like seventeen out. Not that it mattered how easy it was to
reach him—if you needed Max Brown, you found a way there. His expertise was in fixing
broken vacations to yesteryear, in reviving those who for all intents in purposes were 
supposed to have never died (not yet, anyway). 

His shirts were cheap but so was his service, but that didn't mean his work was
second-rate. He could afford to be cheap because it meant more customers, and he liked
fast food and long nights, and he liked working alone. Working alone meant working fast,
and it meant fewer paradoxes on company time. He hated the paperwork for when the
fuck-ups were his own. This was time travel, and there were rules, but that didn't mean
that following them was any fun. He—

All thirty-two doors into his office dinged their bells at the same time. Max looked up
to see the most beautiful... being he had ever seen standing right before his eyes. They
looked back at him.

"May I help you?" Max asked, standing up and brushing the most obvious of the crumbs off
of his cheap shirt. He was suddenly acutely aware that it had gone stale a few
all-nighters back.

"Max Brown, I presume," their voice came at him from dozens of directions at once. The
being in front of him distorted a little. "I... we are in a bit of pickle, and we need
your expertise."

Max looked down at the three or four open cases on his desk. He looked back up and said,
"Yeah, I got the time. But I guess you do, too."

