---
layout: post
categories: creations
date: 2019-8-23
title: Month of Creation 19
---

[Permalink.](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cuiiv3/wp_the_fridge_from_an_estate_sale_for_50_made_a/exv49j7?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)


# Story

I moved the fridge out back last week, behind my shed and next to the pile of branches
that I'm supposedly going to saw up one day. It stopped needing to be plugged in about
three weeks ago, once the "Nuke-o-Cola" drink showed up, with a bundle of wires and plugs
sticking out of it. Turned out that the Nuke-o-Cola just happened to produce exactly the
power the fridge needed, which was a weird coincidence.

The whole thing was a weird coincidence. I copped the fridge at an estate sale a month or
so ago. I haggled the bulbous, sweating salesman behind the table all the way down to $50
before he refused to go any further. A couple of people helped me move the behemoth (the
fridge, not the salesman) into the back of my truck, and I was on my way. The trip was
quick enough, and one of my neighbors helped me get the fridge down. It was a hell of a
thing—it looked like it was made in the 1970s with a distinct forward-thinking "futura"
vibe. A real yesterday's world of tomorrow piece of chrome and deep black panels. There
was ample space inside for meats and beer and all sorts of other generically masculine
comestibles, so I stocked the thing to the brim and enjoyed my newfound space inside the
house.

On the fifth day of new fridge ownership, I opened the door to grab a beer for dessert. I
rummaged around, looking for the six-pack of stouts I had stuck in there the night
before. They were gone. Or, they were exactly where I had left them, still in the box and
everything, but they weren't the stouts I was looking for. I pulled one out, and looked
at the transparent bottle filled with a pastel pink liquid. _What the fuck_, I thought.
The rest of the food and drink in the fridge was fine, it was only this box that had been
messed with. I popped the lid off of the transformed bottle, and was overwhelmed with an
odor that might bear calling "ambrosial." _What the hell_, I figured, as I took a swig.

Over the next few weeks, I came back several times to find that my goods had been
mysteriously transformed. Every time, they were, honestly, serious improvements on the
beers that had been replaced. The meats and cheeses started to get swapped around after a
bit, although I admit with never quite the resounding success as the beer subtitutions.
After all, it's hard to turn a decent cut of meat into anything but a slightly nicer cut
of meat. I think the fridge picked up on that, too, since I found fewer transformations
happening to non-beverage products after the time it turned my neighbor's venison jerky
into something like slim jims by accident. It must have picked up on my disappointment, I
guess.

The Nuke-o-Cola wasn't the first bizarre drink it gave me, but it was the first that was
for more than imbibing. After I moved the fridge out back (it was called "Nuke-o-Cola," I
wasn't going to leave it in the damn garage!), I started finding more troublesome brews.
The first was a colorless, dimunitive bottle marked only "To Seek the Truth." I left that
one where it sat, and it's still there. The next was a bottle labeled "Grandpa Joe."
That one I did drink, although only because I thought it was a cleverly-named beer. It
took me a moment to discover that I had started levitating, and I was saved more by
running into the tree limbs than catching onto them.

After my Willy Wonka incident, I started being more careful. The labels got more
discriptive, and most of them listed their side effects. "Mr. Bolt" and "King of the
Jungle" were what they sounded like, but "Doc Brown" simply said, "hair improvement" on
the side; and "Jon Snow" said, "ignorance is bliss." Recent batches have included such
zingers as "394," which just made me sound like Alan Rickman for an hour; and "BTS,"
which made my singing top-notch.

I opened the fridge today to find that the insides were empty, except for a single
bottle. It was heavy, and made of brown glass. There was a thick cork stopper in the
neck. Round the neck of the bottle was a paper label, with the words ‘DRINK ME’
beautifully printed on it in large letters. I reached my hand for the bottle.

