---
layout: post
title: Month of Creation 4
date: 2019-8-8
categories: creations
---

Day 4 of the party. This one is the Christmas episode.

[permalink](https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/cnj768/wp_the_lone_survivor_of_an_arctic_exploration_you/ewcse9k?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)

---

# Story

"This Christmas will be different," the chief elf said through the sound system, the
hoard of elves in front of her hanging on her every word.

I stood in the back, where I always stand. My handlers, two burly elves who meant business
and who never cared to share in the cookies, waited just to my left and right. I had on
my business attire, which in recent centuries has mostly been a lot of red and white. The
geas that the elves had on me didn't specify what I had to wear—it wasn't that
thorough—but there was a sort of unspoken assumption that I'd dress to fit the part. I
didn't mind that part. After more than half a millennium of this, I didn't much of it,
anymore.

We had set out, originally, to map Greenland. Or to find a passage around it, or over it,
or something like that. I don't remember much of my companions, or who told us to go.
What I do remember, what I will remember until the day I can finally rest, is the sight
of hundreds of glittering eyes where before there had been nothing but white snow. A
multitude of emeralds, concentric rings that slowly closed around me and those with me.
The bodies of the elves, deformed and difficult to distinguish from the void behind them,
grew more numerous. And then they cast the spell on me.

The geas, that magic oath they put upon me, was simple enough. Two pieces of inky
anthracite, a handful of winterberries, and some milk—goat, preferably, but cow or sheep
would do in a pinch—and then a short phrase uttered. The specifics, then and now, were
unclear. I never learned to be a wizard. Why bother, when I was a slave to so many
thousands? "Slave" in elvish is "Santa."

I watched the crowd watch the chief elf. They listened intently.

"This Christmas," she continued, "we have enough coal, and enough holly, and enough
cookies and milk scattered through homes around the world..."

She paused dramatically. She made eye contact with me.

"This Christmas, the gifts come home to the elves: 100,000 new Santas."
