---
layout: post
title: "Friday Facts XII: A Whole New Jobbo"
date: 2019-4-6
categories: fridayfacts
---

Down to brass tacks.

# 1

I got a nice journal to plan out my week in. I decided to see if I'm a "journal person."

I am not.

# 2

I gave up on the _horrendous_ _Stranger in a Strange Land_. I am, without trying to seem
dramatic, honestly shocked that people are into this book. I read the first 200 pages
or so—which was a struggle—and then found myself completely incapable of continuing. This
isn't a book review so much as a lambasting of one of the lamest pieces of fiction I have
ever consumed. I don't think that I could pinpoint exactly what I disliked the most, but
there's a strong vote for the weird sense that things just always seemed to go perfectly
for the protagonists. Not a lick of meaningful conflict. Also, super sexist, even
allowing for it being an "older" piece.

Instead, I've been reading the incredible _A Fire Upon the Deep_, which was recommended
for me by my advisor several years ago and which is stupendous. It's a classic.


# 3

I read _Mateas'_ paper on [expressive
AI](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/%7Emichaelm/publications/Leonardo2001.pdf). A good one, and
certainly relevant to my needs. YMMV.


# 4

I spent the week coming up with an entire plan of action for the AI system that I have to
implement. I wrote for three days straight, trying to iron out the conceptual kinks (and
identify the potential trouble spots).

More on progress in a bit.


# 5

_Baba is You_. But don't waste your time listening to me, just go and play it. A tour de
force, to be certain.


# 6

I've started a new job! Working at _SomaSim, LLC._ on the upcoming (though currently
unannounced, at least for a bit more) project. Shades of criminal activity...


# 7

I've been working a "real job" for the past week, and there's something about an 8-hour
work day, a 40-hour work week. I'm enjoying the structure. I also like that my weekends
are for me and my hobbies. I (once again, although this time with _feelings_) am going to
continue this schedule when I go back to doing research. Having time off to... exist is
something else. Work-life balance is weird, fam.

Oh, fuck, I need to do my taxes.


# Signing Off

Make time for yourself. Like, a lot of time. Work hard for a few hours a day and then
stop at the end. Be f r e e.[^1]

Until next time.


[^1]:
    I am, to my surprise, advocating a 40-hour work week. Okay, not that surprising.
