---
layout: post
title: "Friday Facts VII: On the Up and Up"
date: 2019-2-18
categories: fridayfacts
---

Hello, a delayed weekly letter.

Down to brass tacks.

# 1

I spent Tuesday to Saturday this week remarkably sick. I spent most of my days whinging
softly and wiping my various [face holes](https://xkcd.com/1157/). That means that I got
next to nothing done and am now remarkably stressed about that. I'm sure you can relate.

I'm better now, though, and hoping to rejoin the #1000mphclub, whose membership is
championed by the likes of Warren Ellis (who, though he might find the specifc accolade
appalling, is a bit of an inspiration for me when it comes to work).

# 2

I spent most of Friday writing _yet another_ autograding script, this time for the class
that I'm TAing this quarter. Because I'm a bit enamored (and intimidated, for some
reason) by it, I wrote it in Bash (zsh, really). There's a certain beauty to how that
particular scripting language works out, since one ends up just tacking specialized tools
together and trusting that things like `curl` will do their job. Actually, now that I
inspect the script, it's really just a bunch of `curl` usages. Huh. I should clean it up.

I won't clean it up, mind, not until I have to grade the next batch, which involves
changing things.

# 3

The game that I'm making is missing something. I think that I set out to make a "cool
shmup where you don't have a health bar," and since I didn't really sit down and think
about the kind of experience that I wanted to deliver, I'm now three weeks in, trying to
close my core loop (still) and failing at that. It's a bit alarming. Since this is the
week of self-doubt, what it's doing is making me question my own abilities as a designer,
which is doing nothing for my self-worth.

Look at me complain. Heavens.

What this says, of course, is that I just need to sit down and think about the gameplay
that I'm trying to provide. It doesn't need to be anything particularly _clever_ or
_insightful_, it just needs to be deliberate. Cleverness can come from the next game, if
I want.

# 4

I haven't been reading much lately, either, which is another concerning thing. Reading is
essential, in my opinion (I'm certainly not the first person to suggest this).

# 5

I've been playing _Celeste_, as I mentioned in my previous post. The gameplay is
exquisite, but one of the other reasons that it received a lot of attention is that the
central thematic elements center around mental health and conversations about it. Plenty
of people have lauded this (and plenty of people have lambasted, not this, but the way in
which the inclusion of mental health tends to be a ticket to success notwithstanding the
quality of the game), and I'm not going to spend my time doing that, since there are
others (give it a google) that have done so better than I could here.

Instead, I'm going to comment on how I should probably learn from the lessons that the
game has to offer, namely about taking care of myself. This might sound laughable to the
omniscient in the audience, since my workload is actually remarkably small. But, since it
doesn't feel small _to me_ and since I'm still trying to, you know, figure my life out,
I'll go ahead and give myself an opportunity to just kind of chill out.

This section has been a bit rambling, but the summary is that: 1) _Celeste_, even if you,
personally, aren't impressed with its messages re: mental health, has helped _me_,
personally, with its messages re: mental health; and 2) I should take better care of
myself. So I will. You should, too. Whatever that means for you.

# 6

I played more of the inimitable _Arkham Horror LCG_ this weekend, and had the opportunity
to play as Calvin Wright, a survivor with a stupendous gimmick: 0's in all of his stats
(6/6 health/sanity).[^1] You don't need to know anything about the game to understand me
when I say that I had a _blast_. I love this game to death already, but this character
gave me a completely new way of looking at things.

This isn't the moment where I share my insights; I'm happy to geek out about _Arkham_
with you all day if you're interested, but I'm just here to ramble (and fill 7 sections).

# 7

This coming week looks like a lot of catching up. Revving up to 1000mph, if we can. Lots
of contracting work, lots of research work, and lots of personal project work. Here we
go.

# Signing Off

Remember that self-care is important. Get enough sleep and do a bit of exercise now and
then. Try to shower and go outside. Work on projects that matter to you, but commit to
something that's a little outside your comfort zone. Ignore generic advice from people
like me, but make sure that you reflect on why you're doing so. Until next time.


[^1]:
    If you're finding this incomprehensible and are upset by that, I would suggest that
    you check out the _Arkham Horror LCG_ wherever you can play games locally. If your
    point was actually that I should write in a way that my audience can understand, I
    say piss off, bucko. This bloggo is for me. (Not actually, since I'd like people to
    be able to understand what I'm saying).
