---
layout: post
title: "Friday Facts XIII: Frightened by the Present"
date: 2019-5-10
categories: fridayfacts
---

Down to brass tacks.

# 1

<!--SELF-IMPROVEMENT--> 

I grow more obsessed with reducing my attachment to technology. This is less hippy-dippy
BS (not that I don't like hippy-dippy BS) and more from a mounting terror concerning the
role technology plays in my life. See below.

I've installed the LessPhone launcher, which only allows access to a handful of apps. I'm
considering getting something like [The Light Phone
2](https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/light-phone-2#/).

In all likelihood, I probably won't get that specific piece of technology. It's been
pointed out that the high price of the original light phone ($150) as compared to, say, a
generic flip phone is a reflection of the weird tendency towards being "deliberately"
old-school. I could just as well get a fip phone, but it wouldn't be a statement about my
regression towards the olden days, now would it?

# 2

<!--READING MATERIAL-->

I continue to read the powerhouse that is _The Age of Surveillance Capitalism_, by
Shoshana Zuboff. It paints a picture of the modern economic landscape as it stems from
the juxtaposition of the ruthless extraction of private information with a lack of
regulation w.r.t. the same.

A strong recommend, although brace to be gobsmacked by the audacity of the mega
corporations.


I've _also_ been reading _100 Years_ by Joshua Prager. It has a quote about each year of
life, from 0 to 100. Turns out that a lot of writers wrote about age.

The quote for 24:

> She was twenty-four years old. She wanted to inhabit facts, not dreams.
>
> — Salman Rushdie, __Shalimar the Clown__

# 3

<!--RESEARCH NEWS-->

I reiterate that I think that AI in games does not necessarily serve the purpose of
intelligence (this is the goal of research into Artifical Intelligence itself). Instead,
AI in games is there for entertainment, like everything else.

This leads to a mismatch between the language used to describe agents in games (words
like "clever" and "smart") and their true purpose (entertainment). The last few weeks
have left me thinking a lot about the entertainment purposes that agents in games serve.
Some axes along which elements might fall:

- Transparency and Surfacing
- Robustness and Flexibility
- Variety and Predicitability

More, perhaps, on this later...

# 4

<!--MISC. HACKING-->

[This thing is pretty cool.](http://www.hemingwayapp.com/)

# 5

<!--GAMES PLAYED-->

I've been playing a bit of _Civilization V_. I've been playing _Cuphead_ (for the
Switch). I'm back on my _Into the Breach_ grind.

# 6

<!--PERSONAL NEWS-->

I put a recliner in my room. Strong recommendation on that point, as now I can get out of
bed in the morning and go and sleep in my chair.

# 7

<!--MENTAL STATE-->

Living in constant awareness that my time on earth is limited. I hope you are, too.

# Signing Off

Let each day be a celebration of what you're capable of.

Until next time.

