---
layout: post
title: "Friday Facts IV: On to Finishable Things?"
date: 2019-1-26
categories: fridayfacts
---

Down to brass tacks.

# 1

It is important, apparently, to make project schedules. The calendar-based game has been
postponed, mostly due to the fact that progress was slow and lacked direction. In the
meantime, I've started a newish project for the next six weeks, one which is: (1) smaller
in scope, (2) based off of traditional gameplay, and (3) moving alongside the class that
I'm TAing. I've already made a schedule for it, which hopefully means that my attention
will be better applied. It's hard enough to focus when you're as impulsive and flighty as
I am. That really wasn't meant as a contrast to anything—I'm just impulsive and flighty.
:(

# 2

I've finished Einstein's Dreams. On the one hand, the author brings up several
interesting ways that we might think about time. On the other hand, these aren't
explorations of what these "alternate time timelines" would be like, and every chapter
feels like a vehicle for a quote. Nevertheless, it was short and occasionally
thought-provoking, even if I do feel a little gross for letting the author have his way.

# 3

Since this is the end of the first month of the quarter, my first (aborted) game gamejam
is almost over. This means that, in addition to the project that I've started to go in
parallel with the class I'm TAing, I'll also be starting another project with my advisor.
This one is a detective-style conversation game. Mechanics are stolen straight from The
Esoterrorists, which is a fabulous Robin Laws joint filled with gumshoe detectives
battling Lovecraftian horrors and their adherents. It's awesome.  

# 4

The first of yoga's eight limbs is Yama, which consists of ahimsa (non-violence), satya
(truth), asteya (non-stealing), brahmacharya (continence), and aparigraha (non-coveting).

# 5

How would one go about making a game where circuits and their abstractions were the
principal activity? It's easy to imagine simple circuits being simulated directly, but
complex circuits (namely, CPUs) involve far too many transistors for simulating them
directly to be anything close to fun...

Perhaps, instead of having the smaller circuits be simulated and the larger circuits
consist of amalgams of smaller ones, we instead have _everything_ be abstract machines,
and just accept that the tiny circuits are abstract machines with way too much juice.
Then we need to find a way of compiling circuits into abstract machines. I'll need to
take a look at the reactive programming people's work...

# 6

I spent a _huge_ portion of this week thinking about my career. I've spent a goodly
amount of time over the past month or so debating dropping out of school (really, getting
a Masters instead of a PhD), and I've been spending a lot of time over the past few weeks
thinking harder about that. I think that, as long as my advisor is cool with me doing so,
I'll continue just making the games that I want and backsolving for institutional support
later.

So, I just make games. Whatever games I want. And I get to teach. It's a good life, I
suppose.

# 7

After this game, when I have a few spare cycles to do something with a core loop that
lasts longer than five minutes, I've got ambitions of a card-based dungeon crawler where
one lays out the tiles that one needs to deal with, and (presumably) holds a hand of
available resources as well. Feel free to steal this idea (if this post is anything more
than chatting into the void), or to ping me about collaboration. In any case, it's an
idea I'm pretty into.

# Signing Off

Self-reflection is important. Keep asking yourself _why_ you like cat pictures so much.
Until next time.

