---
layout: post
title: "Friday Facts X: Gamesters on a Train"
date: 2019-3-19
categories: fridayfacts
---

Down to brass tacks.

# 1

I'm delayed thanks to GDC. It's still ongoing (I'll be busy through the end of tomorrow,
at the earliest), but the first day has ended and it's midway through the second day.

I've gone to a number of talks, many of which had to do with running a studio. My partner
pointed out that this is probably because I myself am always scheming on how my future
studio will come into existence. I hadn't actually noticed the pattern until she pointed
it out. I should probably pay more attention to what I'm up to...

In any case, GDC2019 has been a blast so far. The talks have (mostly) been well-written
and well-delivered, and the speakers seemed focused on answering the ever important
question: what do I, an audience member, have to learn from _your_ experiences.


# 2

Of course, I got to San Francisco by way of [The Train Jam](https://trainjam.com/). It
was my first time participating, and it was absurd. A couple hundred people buying out an
entire California Zephyr and hacking on games for the duration of the 52 hour trip. There
was an overwhelming sense of community built through shared suffering (have _you_ ever
taken a multiday train ride?). This suffering was... extended by the fact that the train
was delayed for a total of almost 20 hours, and that one of the coaches (mine, as luck
would have it) last power partway through the jam, killing off light, heat, and toilets
in that car.

This kind of made the trip _more_ fun, in a way. It became like a messed up camping trip
where everyone got to make a game. I had a blast. I'll definitely be on it next year, god
willing.

If you want to play the game I made, you can find a link
[here](https://yikesdotgov.itch.io/flowertower).

# 3

I've finished Robopocalypse. It was... a lot. The focus jumped around so much that it was
hard to get attached to anyone. The timescale was so accelerated that it felt like a lot
of interesting detail was missed. The characters were so miraculously lucky (and so
interconnected—everyone seemed related to everyone else) that nothing felt tense. The
relationships among them were cookie-cutter and kind of male fantasy-ish (the lead
character and the
Very-Clearly-Future-Love-Interest-Currently-Standoffish-Powerful-but-not-too-Powerful-Featureless-Woman
do, shockingly, shack up in the end).

There were parts that I liked, but it felt more like I was along for a ride through
someone else's weird dream than like I was experiencing an actual story.

Nevertheless, it _was_ a helluva page-turner. That's something worth reflecting on, I
suppose.

# 4

This is my second time in San Francisco. I'm not sure that I would want to live in this
city (it has a weirdly smug vibe). I do like the warmth and the coffeeshops, but I don't
like the fact that I'm not sure I would ever be part of a community here. But, that's
every city, I suppose.

God, I sound like a turd writing this.

# 5

Life is... sort of off right now. I don't know if you've ever felt that there's an
undercurrent of wrong running under everything that's going right, but I currently feel
like something's not quite right.

Maybe it's because I'm overcaffeinated.

I'm exhausted, and underworked, and overpaid. I can only hope that my love of games will
sustain me in my endless drama trip.

# 6

The best part about the talks at GDC is that, if a talk is interesting, then it's easy to
entertain oneself. If it's a bit... lacking, then one can spend the time brainstorming in
the back of the room.

I've spent this GDC thinking about my next side project. I've got a couple of candidates,
as well as some ideas that are clearly going to need to wait until I find myself with a
ton of time to do my own thing.

The former category includes an idea about growing pillars out of the ground to push a
boulder up a hill. It was inspired by the simultaneous sight of a worker pushing a heavy
cart and the enormous load-bearing pillars scattered throughout the convention center.

The latter category includes a game about a rag-and-bone-man, of sorts. I have a bit of a
penchant for inventory management, and I love the idea of a rudimentary form of magic
used to literally turn trash into treasure. There's a fantasy world here, and the
opportunity for some gentle PCG of everything from trash to town culture.

Somewhere in between is the idea that I've been kicking around for a while of a game of
malicious cartography, wherein the player's job is to draw a map of the world for the
villagers. It's up to them to decide if they want to draw an accurate map or not...

# 7

I went to a talk today about running a studio as a co-op of sorts. Flat organizational
structure where each individual has a say in how things are run. There are no bosses, and
hiring/firing means bringing someone into the family. It's fascinating, and very much the
sort of thing that I'd like to be a part of. For now, of course, I'm still struggling
with trying to decide how much work I can sneak in on the side and not lose my mind.

That said, if _you_ want to make a game with me, that would be something to reach out
about. Of course, there may very well never be a "you," as this could just be yelling
into the void. Alas.

# Signing Off

To go and take a moment to chill out and be a little less dramatic. Pay attention to what
other people do and say. Until next time.
