---
layout: post
title: "Florence Review"
date: 2019-7-22
categories: reviews
---

__This review contains spoilers for Florence.__


As far as games go, _Florence_ eschews traditional design decisions. There are few
choices, there is little agency, and there sequences in which doing nothing is as active
a choice as deliberately interacting with the game. The game's mechanics are
systematically shallow and challenge is absent.

And yet, the game manages to tell its story in a heart-wrenching and elegant way. Its
characters are painted as nuanced and interesting, and the game serves as a window into
their lives as the two of them discover, maybe not what it is like to fall in love, but
certainly what it is like to fall in love with each other.

The experience of playing the game is deeply personal, but the way that it tells it is
wicked clever. This is a game of callbacks, contrasts, and repetitions. Mechanics sound
heavy-handed until you try them for yourself, and until you seem them repeated, but
twisted.

Take Florence's mother: overbearing, nosy, a selfish conversationalist. In every
conversation between mother and daughter, Florence sits through probes about her love
life and Charlie Brown's teacher-style _woh woh woh's_. Florence's mother doesn't even
seem to have _pupils_, her face supporting a pair of severe and opaque square-rimmed
glasses. We're given the option to ignore mom's calls. That is, until we need her most.
In our moment of need, the call is unavoidable. For the first time, mom has pupils, and
our conversation isn't the mindless mashing of buttons. It's just a checkmark.

This version of the conversation stands as a stark contrast to every other
mother-daughter moment. For the first time, Florence does all the talking, pouring her
heart out to a mother who seems to legitimately care.

In books, one should show, not tell. In video games, one should do, not show. _Florence_
is a masterful example thereof. Everything tediously brushing one's teeth to "checking"
off another monotonous day serves to capture the main character's feelings. We're shown a
pallete of mechanics: combining numbers to "do accounting", sliding our fingers around to
brush our teeth, moving the hands of clocks to 

...

_Florence_ showcases the people in relationships—parents and families as well as
individuals—not just the partnership. Florence and Krish's lives existed long before the
two of them met, and they continue to exist well after it ends.

...

https://www.theguardian.com/games/2018/mar/03/florence-iphone-video-game-review-simon-parkin

https://www.polygon.com/2018/2/15/17014258/florence-game-review-ios-best-games-2018

https://www.invidio.us/watch?v=MhI03UIT70c
