---
layout: post
title: "Review—Vagante"
date: 2019-1-1
categories: reviews 
---

# Difficulty Curve

# Multiplayer

[Nuke Nine's](http://nukenine.com/) game [_Vagante_](http://vagantegame.com/) is a
roguelike action platformer set in a crapsack world where everything can kill you in two
hits. Its primary gameplay centers around a slow, steady progress through a lethal world,
with intermittent moments of intense action. The pacing is good, the characters are fun
and interesting, and the pricepoint ($14.99) is worth it for the few dozen hours you'll
get out of it [TODO footnote on the $5/hour rule]. The game has its warts: its difficulty
curve, swingy luck, and frustrating platforming can lead to some abortive play sessions.
It makes up for this with solid multiplayer, fun weapon design, and tiny secrets
sprinkled throughout the level for those who care to look for them.

All in all, it's a romp, and the frustration is usually offset by the good times you'll
have.

Let's start with the things that are bad-bad. The whole gimmick of Vagante is that it's
pretty difficult, and that player progress means mastering the skills present in the
game.[^1] This certainly isn't the first game to do this—it's arguably the foundation of
the roguelike/lite genre—and it isn't the first game to have "brutally difficult" as its
calling attraction. But what _Vagante_ does do is make you feel like your progress is
palpable: the initial levels kick your ass at first, and then they kick your ass less,
and then they became a mere speedbump on your way to the later levels, which themselves
kick your ass. The process repeats. The game does this pretty well, at least at first,
and progress is both noticeable and significant.

But things taper off in the later levels. The third area, which is a combination 

_Vagante's_ multiplayer experience is excellent

_Vagante's_ art, sound, etc. are solid

_Vagante's_ controls are esoteric, but nothing that can't be memorized away (and at least
they're customizable however you want).

_Vagante's_ class options and upgrades are mixed—some of the classes are more
more straightforward for beginners

_Vagante's_ PCG systems are decent, _Vagante's_ random generation (difference between
randomness and PCG) is a mixed bag

_Vagante's_ enemy design and AI are mostly solid    

_Vagante's_ mechanics and input are mostly good, although there are moments where I want
to stab my forking eyes out because I have to do precision platforming in a game whose
controls are mostly to do with stabby platforming.

# Complaints

My biggest complaint about _Vagante_ is probably the inertia one feels when starting a
new run. A confluence of factors (the shuffling of consumable effects, the initial
difficulty in getting currency, and the relative weakness of the player at the beginning
of the game being the three most significant) lead to slow starts. The first area has
enemies which are easy to kill, so it goes quickly, even though one doesn't know much in
the way of consumables. The second area can eat through a player's HP quickly, and
mistakes made then (or earlier) compound mercilessly. This leads to a strategy of playing
very slowly and methodically, since it is often safer to fight one mob at a time, luring
them around and poking them down, then it is to Leeroy Jenkins the situation.[TODO
footnote on Dark Souls and progress of this sort] This combines with the fact that a
player essentially _must_ fight the level boss in order to get enough experience to level
up at the next bonfire. One can, of course, kill all the mobs to reach the same result,
although this is frustratingly not guaranteed to give enough XP to level up. Fighting the
boss usually also means fighting most of the mobs around them, since the only thing more
lethal than a fracas with a Mushroom Golem is a fracas with a Mushroom Golem and two
spiders.

So, the result is the same. Again, it's worth pointing out that this experience is in a
lot of ways desireable: the developers want to give the players substantial challenges,
and to encourage them to face them. In this case, they chose to punish the player for not
fighting by witholding levels as a result. I get it.

Yet, it ends up being a little unfulfilling, at the end. Rushing through earlier stages
to get to later ones leads to under-leveled characters in the late game [TODO footnote:
presumably? I never actually tried this strat...], and fighting without being plodding
and methodical leads to taking damage, which is the one resource in _Vagante_ that one
cannot afford to lose.

So, it's a rock and a hard place: I sure would like to feel like I'm getting better at
the game by virtue of rushing through the early areas and then butting my head against
the later ones. Instead, it feels like what I'm learning is not mastery of the game's
mechanics, but strategies which encourage the least combat possible, or at least which
encourage a specific (and unfulfilling) version of it. In a game all about combat (there
isn't much else here), this leaves me feeling a little unfulfilled.

---

On the other hand, _Vagante_ although the shuffling and resetting work to take the
player's legs out from under them, the equipment and spells seem specifically designed to
give the player excellent kiting and one-on-one fighting ability. Freezing spells are
easy to come by, and poison and burn DOT effects are some of the more common ability.
Sustain abilities like lifesteal give the player their HP back in dribs and drabs.
Shields exist. Life regeneration potions are available from chests and shops (just don't
confuse them for poison!). Books and scrolls can be consumed during stage intermissions
to heal more. And so on.

At the end of the day, though, these don't counteract the slow drain on the player's
resources so much as offset it. It's still best to play a nice, slow game, kiting the
enemies out one at a time and being patient. If that's your bag, then _Vagante_ is for
you. If it's not, or if you tend to lose your cool, you might have to work a little
harder (and get a little luckier).

# Multiplayer

_Vagante_ has a lot going for it with its multiplayer experience. The technical aspects
aside (they're solid enough that I'm not going to comment), the change in gameplay from
adding even just one more player is substantial.

Much of the experience of a particular run is determined by the player's choice of
starting class and background. Classes in the traditional fantasy game sense of rogues,
mages, and the like. Backgrounds are bonus attributes like additional strength or a
starting inventory of bombs. Both elements are unlocked in a greater variety as the game
progresses.

The classes each have their strengths and weaknesses: knights are tanky and slow, mages
are squishy but zappy, and so on. These characteristics lead to different playstyles,
especially at the beginning of the game (when _Vagante_ is at its most volatile). But
putting two players together (of the same class or different) changes the game
completely.

A mage and a knight create a wall of destruction, and the mage's ability to make all
potions automatically identified removes a huge amount of uncertainty from the game. Two
rogues can work together to kite dangerous bosses. A wilding and a ranger can gang up to
output an enormous amount of damage in a short time, stunlocking enemies to death. 

In fact, the multiplayer experience is so different that I have the sneaking suspicion
that the game was designed with a 2- or 3- player experience in mind. It's hard to say,
really. Also, if you're looking for strategy advice, a lone mage with the rest of the
party as wildings will utterly _destroy_. The mage gives long-range support, enchants
weapons, and makes bad potions good. The wildings just have ludicrous DPS. But I digress.

# Basics

_Vagante_ is a stabby, jumpy platformer, so let's start there. The stabbing and jumping
in this game feel good. The controls are a little arbitrary and certain interactions
feel esoteric, but they're easy enough to memorize and are—more importantly—remappable,
so that's a big win in my opinion. At times the platforming can get a little _too_
precise, and there are sequences that require precise timing or input sequences to
execute, which end up feeling a little sloppy on the _Vagante_ controls. On the other
hand, the animations and hitboxes are clear, and it rarely feels like an attack misses
when it should hit or vice verse (there are other parts of the game that should, perhaps,
be more predictable, but we'll get to that).

The game has you progressing through a number of areas of increasing spookiness, with
enemies getting stronger. Progression mechanics are threefold. First, explicit power
increases via between stage checkpoints. Leveling at these locations can only happen if
the player has earned enough experience points. Earning enough experience comes from
killing enemies, although the player immediately jumps to max experience upon killing an
area boss.

The second progression mechanic is the slow gathering of better equipment over the course
of the game. Through shops, chests, shrines, and enemy drops, the player receives new
equipment, which may be better adapted to their playstyle, or may just simply do more DPS
as a result of different stats or on-hit effects. There is a litany of available
modifiers, and learning which do what is a big part of improving at the game. By late
game, the player is ideally a powerhouse, dealing a wide variety of on-hit effects,
slinging spells, and tanking damage like a champ. Ideally. More on that later, too. As an
extension to equipment progession, the in-game shop gets better (and more expensive)
stock as the player spends money at it over the course of a playthrough. All of these
effects (and the aforementioned leveling) are reset each playthrough.

By contrast, the third progression mechanic happens between runs. As a reward for playing
the game, the player slowly unlocks new classes, alternate BGM, and different
"backgrounds," which are starting game effects that can give the player a big leg up over
the course of the run. [TODO footnote on backgrounds].

There is a fourth, less explicit progression mechanic: knowledge. I'm referring both to
knowledge of the game's rules (for instance, that one can burn books and scrolls at a
bonfire to heal more HP in the intermissions between levels), and to per-run knowledge.
I'm going to go into _Vagante's_ penchant for shuffling things around in a later section,
but for now let's leave it with this: every run sees _all_ potions, scrolls, and
spellbooks receiving a shuffle of which sprite/description is paired with which effect.
What was a potion of +1 strength in the previous run may very well be poison this time
around. This means that each run has the player carefully (or recklessly) testing each
consumable to see what its effects are on that particular playthrough. In a sense, this
means that the player is getting better and better at consuming items the more they play
a particular run. But, like I said, more on that later.


# Difficulty Curve

_Vagante's_ difficulty curve is steady and reasonable at the start of the game, with a
substantial spike at each level (meaning that progress through one area is rewarded with
new and exciting challenges upon reaching the next), but the core elements stay the
same: the enemies are new, but familiar; the shop is the same (except with cooler, more
expensive stuff if you bothered to buy from it in earlier levels), the bosses are
interesting (and get downright scary in later areas), etc. The frustrating part about
_Vagante's_ difficulty comes from the fact that the effort (and luck, more on that in a
bit) required to reach your high watermark of progress is non-trivial. This stems from
the fact that death resets _everything_, which in _Vagante_ includes things like which
potions are mapped to which effects. This random shuffling leads to runs that feel
stunted by bad luck—anything from gambling with a weapon's cursed status to accidentally
drinking poison, both of which can be run killers. In the end, this leads to the dominant
strategy of _Vagante_: take as _little_ damage as possible, and take as _few_ risks as
possible. Playing it safe means that your character is going to have survived long enough
to make it through to later levels.

The game gives you the means to be careful, too. Scrolls (which, while they are shuffled
around like potion effects are, have mostly neutral/positive effects, so experimenting
with them is pretty safe) exist which allow you to glean information about
potions/weapons. Certain in-game fixtures (altars) allow you to deduce whether or not a
piece of equipment is cursed (which means you won't be able to take it off once you put
it on, and its effects are typically negative as opposed to positive). So, it's not to
say that _Vagante_ forbids you from surviving all the way to the very end, by just
advancing slowly and steadily.

However, I have three problems with this. The first is about trouncing the player's
knowledge of the game with the shuffling of potion/scroll effects on every death. This
feels like it's there to prevent the player from memorizing their way through the game.
It makes every run feel tense and dangerous because quaffing a potion (especially early
on, when most of them are unidentified) could do anything from nearly kill you (poison)
to give you a permanent buff to your luck (a stat which is important to get at the
beginning of the game, since it means better drops for future levels).

This is a good thing, I feel. Runs make you feel weak at the beginning of the game, since
you're running around a crapsack world where most things can kill you in two hits. You
get more savvy as you play the game more, but you're still just as vulnerable as when you
first started playing. I _like_ this feeling, since it means that my success in the game
is ostensibly based off of _my_ ability, not my willingness to grind [TODO footnote:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G9FB5R4wVno]. And yet, I do find it moderately
frustrating that this results in the first few levels taking longer, not by virtue of
being more difficult, but by virtue of being _earlier_. In other words, the later areas
are harder because the enemies are stronger and have more lethal/challenging attack
patterns. The earlier levels have weaker enemies, but a greater number of unknowns. This
means that safe progress (crucial for making it to the later levels with enough HP left
to survive) is made by crawling through the first few levels in terms of equipment.
Fighting enemies starts easy and gets hard. Drinking potions, using scrolls, and
equipping weapons starts hard and gets easy.

In other, other words: the game's difficulty curve has a big spike at the beginning (when
the player knows nothing and has no means of identifying things), a slight dip in the
middle (when knowledge and enemy strength pass each other) and a spike at the end (when
the enemies are strongest and the levels most lethal).

There are a number of ways of "fixing" this [TODO footnote on whether or not I should
talk about "fixing" things in this review, and also intended experience] that hopefully
wouldn't ruin the developer's vision of the game. Really, what I want is something like
the ability to lock which poitions are which between runs. I don't care if this doesn't
give me achievements, or whatever the consequence may be. I just want to be able to focus
on practicing a particular level without having to _also_ worry about what potions I'm
drinking, or which scroll does what, etc. This would solve that problem [TODO footnote on
how player feedback asking for a specific feature may be representative of a need for a
different, but actually better feature, and how players don't really know what they
want]. I'd also love a "jump to this section" feature. Even starting with a
lower-levelled character, but having skipped some earlier sections, would be nice for the
purpose of practicing against the moves of the later bosses. I don't really know. I just
wish that I had some way of quickly zipping through the first levels so that I could test
myself on the later ones.

Of course, it could be the case that I'm simply too impatient, and that the point of
_Vagante_ is that it's a slow burn, from timidly sipping early potions all the way up to
the final, epic boss fights. Who knows.


# Wrap-up

_Vagante_ has a variety of playable classes to suit multiple playstyles, a respectable
online experience, a slew of in-game weapons at your disposal, and a respectably grim
atmosphere that pairs well with its punishing personality.

Its difficulty curve is at times oddly tuned, and the way that its mechanics combine
leads to a playstyle that can feel luck-based and slow.

Its multiplayer experience is excellent, although it also serves to shine a light on the
weird tuning of the single player experience.

All in all, although _Vagante_ is pretty standard roguelike-stabby-platformer fare, it
ends up standing just a touch above its competition by keeping its core gameplay loop
ever at the forefront, choosing to eschew anything that isn't jumping, stabbing, or
slinging spells.

A solid experience for those seeking a challenging, streamlined game.

# TL;DR

Total Hours Played: ~33 ($0.45/hr)

Game Beaten: No (not for lack of trying...)

Pros: Lots of variety in enemies, weapons, levels, and character classes. Online play is
fairly smooth. Consequences of in-game actions and choices feel significant. Core
gameplay loop is straightforward but well-executed.

Cons: Ungodly punishing (I don't mean difficult). Occasionally buggy enemy behavior. At
times unpredictable. Moments of precision platforming in a game about stabby platforming
(kill me now). Strangely tuned difficulty curve leads to slow starts to new runs, making
back-to-back attempts unrewarding.

Grade: B+


[^1]:
    You can find an interview with _Rogue_ co-creator Michael Toy
    [here](http://pcgbook.com/wp-content/uploads/interviews.pdf) where he talks about the
    original reasons for making _Rogue_. It boils down to keeping the game surprising and
    making sure that in-game consequences feel consequential. Re: surprise—see main text.
    Re: consequences—see this
    [tweet](https://twitter.com/britishgaming/status/1034411051843026945?lang=es) from
    Mark Brown on _Elder Scrolls 2_ and its warning not to save scum.
