---
layout: post
title: "Game of the Month I: The Binding of Isaac"
date: 2019-1-1
categories: gotm 
---

This is the first in my game of the month series. I'm trying to 1) play more games and 2)
clear out my Steam library. I [stream](https://www.twitch.tv/yikesdotgov) my
playthroughs pretty much every night. After I beat the game, I write up a review of sorts
(this is one such review) talking about the things that stood out to me. I tend to ramble
on about related game design topics. This is just as much for me as it is for you, dear
reader.

Down to brass tacks.

_The Binding of Isaac_ is a roguelike[^1] dungeon crawler with overtly Biblical
references scattered liberally throughout (more on that in (TODO LINK TO EXPERIENCES)).

[^1]:
    I draw a distinction between _roguelite_ and _roguelike_, namely that the former is a
    game where the player makes incremental progress between deaths (leveling up, gaining
    new abilities, etc.) and the latter is a game where progression mechanics are mostly
    limited to per-life developments. Fuzziness comes up with, e.g., character or weapon
    unlocks that arguably make the game easier, but I'd say that those aren't progression
    mechanics so much as they are ways in which the game opens itself up to the player.
    YMMV.

There are three things to talk about when it comes to the Binding of Isaac's experience:
the biblical references, its tradeoffs, and its nature as a roguelike. Let's talk about
the last first.

# As a Roguelike

The appeal of roguelikes comes from the looping nature of progress while playing them.
Initially, players are unfamiliar with the particulars of the game—the item effects, the
boss patterns, the level layouts, etc. After a few (painfully short) lives, moderate
progress has been achieved and the player has started to see some of what the game has to
offer.

Subsequent playthroughs move faster through the earlier parts of the game which the
player implicitly needs to master to get to the later parts. However, these areas include
unfamiliar and more challenging enemies. Since the player has mastered the game's basic
mechanics,[^2] we can make the challenges more exacting and sophisticated. In this way,
the later parts of the game maintain a level of challenge similar to that of the first.
The player eventually makes their way to the end of these parts, effectively unlocking
later parts, and the cycle repeats until they have beaten the game.

[^2]:
    Like I said, this is an implicit assumption. There isn't a lot of work that I know of
    (feel free to let me know if I missed something) on explicit models of player skill
    and understanding. Usually, we just assume that if a player made it past a difficult
    part then that means that they understand the elements that constructed that
    particular part. [TODO cite Martens]

Roguelites differ from roguelikes in that there are progression mechanics outside of the
in-game rewards—there is "meta" leveling, or more powerful equipment is unlocked, or
otherwise. In a roguelike, such progression is rare: it may well be the case that the
player unlocks a new class or character option, but this option doesn't make the game
_easier_, it isn't _better_, than what came before, just different.

_The Binding of Isaac_ works in this way. Accomplishing certain specific tasks rewards
the player the right to play the game as a different character or the use of a different
item. However, while some of the characters are definitively better than the starting
character (Isaac himself), it's not an ongoing progression. In other words, after you've
unlocked all of the characters and all of the items, things end. Your "meta" character
doesn't get anything new, you can't keep leveling up, etc. You've earned the right to try
playing the game a different way (with a new character, or in a challenge mode), but you
haven't made _progress_ necessarily towards completing the game's goal. You're no farther
along than you were when you started playing the game. You haven't _progressed_.

I digress, really, because this isn't a post about roguelikes, it's a post about _The
Binding of Isaac_. Let's get back on track. _The Binding of Isaac_ is challenging, but it
isn't savage. Its mechanics lend themselves to avoiding early damage long enough to
ensure that one can acquire the necessary items to kick butt in the later parts of the
game. Sustain items (e.g., those that heal damage) are particularly nice, as are items
that offer chances to reduce incoming damage or avoid dying outright. It's levels are
procedural, à la the classic _Rogue_, and they seem to adopt its goal of mixing things up
so that players can't memorize the level layouts.

That's as far as the PCG[^3] goes, and that's quite alright. What particular items you
get in any level are random, but the items themselves have consistent behavior[^4]
(unlike, e.g., _Vagante_, which you can read about when I finish its GOTM slot). This is
nice, both because the items would be a wild ride if they were unpredictable (see later
section) and because there is often a strong thematic connection between an item's
characteristics and its effects. Keeping this connection with inconsistent effects would
have been more difficult, and losing it would be a real bummer.

[^3]:
    I am loathe to call it "PCG," really, since it's just meaningful randomness. This
    isn't to disparage the game—I don't think that it would be served by increasing its
    content generation tendencies—I just think it's important to draw a distinction
    between "I randomly generate levels which are valid" and "I am procedurally
    generating _content_ for my game." Yes, I do think that levels are content, and yes,
    they are being made procedurally here, but it feels disingenuous in this case. I
    should probably write a separate post about this.

[^4]:
    With a couple of exceptions, such as the pills.

# Is it Worth It?

Not all is good in the world of _The Binding of Isaac_. Plenty of things have negative or
mixed effects. Some of these are consistent (such as the tarot cards) and others are
assigned randomly at the start of a run (such as pills). Before a player has developed an
encyclopedic knowledge of the in-game items, and even afterwards, there is always the
question of whether or not something is worth its cost. There are keys, pennies, bombs,
and even health to be used as a type of currency (the last both explicitly in the form of
a blood donation and implicitly when fighting difficult enemies). There is an opportunity
cost around every corner—should one rush to the boss and hope to beat it with mediocre
stats, or clear the floor and try to maintain an acceptable amount of health? Is that
particular door with the key to open it? Is that deal with the devil worth the painful
price of a heart container?

# Biblical All the Way

I'm not always a flavor person—I'm usually into particular mechanics for their flashy
effects or challenging adjustments ot gameplay. That said, I was also raised in a
Christian household, and couldn't help but notice the biblical references scattered
throughout the game. I'm not going to outline all of them, nor offer commentary on the
juxtaposition of, say, tarot with explicitly Christian elements (spoiler alert:
christians aren't big on witchcraft), but it was at the very least neat to notice the
undertones as I played.[^5]

[^5]:
    For what it's worth, _I'm_ totally okay with witchcraft. I don't practice, but I'm
    doubtful that it will land your soul in hell or any of that.

# Conclusion

I played _The Binding of Isaac_ years ago and never finished it. I set out on this quest
of sorts to clear out my Steam library and to beat all of the games in it that needed my
attention. I enjoyed its gameplay (I'm a big fan of roguelikes, and I like a challenge),
and I enjoyed its references (even if I don't practice religion, I can't help but be
aware of how saturated my childhood was with this stuff).

Play if you're looking for a short, moderate intensity dungeon crawler with an veritable
smorgasboard of weird items and effects. Play doubly if you're a bit of a completionist
and care to try for everything.

__Next month: Vagante__ 


