---
layout: post
title: "Review—Vagante"
date: 2019-1-1
categories: reviews 
---

[Nuke Nine's](http://nukenine.com/) game [_Vagante_](http://vagantegame.com/) is a
roguelike action platformer set in a crapsack world where everything can kill you in two
hits. Its primary gameplay centers around a slow, steady progress through a lethal world,
with intermittent moments of intense action. The pacing is good, the characters are fun
and interesting, and the pricepoint ($14.99) is worth it for the few dozen hours you'll
get out of it [TODO footnote on the $5/hour rule]. The game has its warts: its difficulty
curve, swingy luck, and frustrating platforming can lead to some abortive play sessions.
It makes up for this with solid multiplayer, fun weapon design, and tiny secrets
sprinkled throughout the level for those who care to look for them.

All in all, it's a romp, and the frustration is usually offset by the good times you'll
have.

Down to brass tacks.

# Basics

Vagante is a stabby, jumpy platformer. The stabbing and jumping feel good, although the
controls are a little arbitrary and certain interactions feel esoteric. But, they’re easy
enough to memorize and are—more importantly—remappable, so that’s a big win . At times
the platforming requires precise timing or input sequences to execute, which end up
feeling a little sloppy on the _Vagante_ controls.

The game has you progressing through a number of areas of increasing spookiness and
lethality. Progression mechanics are threefold. First, explicit power increases via
between stage checkpoints. Leveling at these locations can only happen if the player has
earned enough experience points. Earning enough experience comes from killing enemies,
although the player immediately jumps to max experience upon killing an area boss.

The second progression mechanic is the slow gathering of better equipment over the course
of the game. Through shops, chests, shrines, and enemy drops, the player receives new
equipment, which may be better adapted to their playstyle, or may just simply do more DPS
as a result of different stats or on-hit effects. There is a litany of available
modifiers, and learning which do what is a big part of improving at the game. By late
game, the player is ideally a powerhouse, dealing a wide variety of on-hit effects,
slinging spells, and tanking damage like a champ. Ideally. More on that later, too. As an
extension to equipment progession, the in-game shop gets better (and more expensive)
stock as the player spends money at it over the course of a playthrough. All of these
effects (and the aforementioned leveling) are reset each playthrough.

By contrast, the third progression mechanic happens between runs. As a reward for playing
the game, the player slowly unlocks new classes, alternate BGM, and different
“backgrounds,” which are starting game effects that can give the player a big leg up over
the course of the run. [TODO footnote on backgrounds].

# Gripe: Difficulty

Vagante’s difficulty curve seems steady and reasonable at the start of the game, with a
substantial spike at each level,so progress through is rewarded with new and exciting
challenges. The frustration comes from how mercilessly early mistakes compound. Health is
nigh impossible to recover, and equpiment curses mean that trying a piece of armor on can
lead to being stuck with negative stats until RNJesus gives you an uncurse scroll. [TODO
footnote on shrines] Playing _Vagante_ well sometimes feels like it requires doing a
perfect no-hit run of the first few levels, just to get a _crack_ at the later ones. The
punishment for small mistakes (fighting a mob and getting hit once, taking fall damage
because of a misstimed jump) is savage only by virtue of being essentially permanent to
the run.

Then there's the fact that the player essentially must fight the level boss in order
to get enough experience to level up at the next bonfire. Fighting the boss usually also
means fighting most of the mobs around them, since the only thing more lethal than a
fracas with a Mushroom Golem is a fracas with a Mushroom Golem and two spiders.
(One can, of course, kill all the mobs to reach the same result, although this is
frustratingly not guaranteed to give enough XP to level up.)

The game does, admitedly, give you the means to be careful. Scrolls (which, while they
are shuffled around like potion effects are, have mostly neutral/positive effects, so
experimenting with them is pretty safe) exist which allow you to glean information about
potions and weapons. Certain in-game fixtures (shrines) allow you to deduce whether or
not a piece of equipment is cursed (which means you won’t be able to take it off once you
put it on, and its effects are typically negative as opposed to positive). So, it’s not
to say that _Vagante_ forbids you from surviving all the way to the very end, by just
advancing slowly and steadily.

Additionally, the equipment and spells seem specifically designed to give the player
excellent kiting and one-on-one fighting ability. Freezing spells are easy to come by,
and poison and burn DOT effects are some of the more common ability. Sustain abilities
like lifesteal give the player their HP back in dribs and drabs. Shields exist.  Life
regeneration potions are available from chests and shops (just don’t confuse them for
poison!). Books and scrolls can be consumed during stage intermissions to heal more.  And
so on. At the end of the day, though, these don’t counteract the slow drain on the
player’s resources so much as offset it.

The frustration surrounding _Vagante's_ punishing difficulty stems, again, from the price
of failure. Your character is fragile, and recovery is arduous. In a platformer where a
character can't by default swing their sword upwards at airbore enemies, where every
potion starts off an unlabeled bottle that could make you stronger or put you on the
brink of death; this feels like a lot. It leads to an experience can be oppressively
difficult.

# Perk: Multiplayer

Vagante has a lot going for it with its multiplayer experience. The technical aspects
aside (they’re solid enough that I’m not going to comment), the change in gameplay from
adding even just one more player is substantial.

Much of the experience of a particular run is determined by the player’s choice of
starting class and background. Classes in the traditional fantasy game sense of rogues,
mages, and the like. Backgrounds are bonus attributes like additional strength or a
starting inventory of bombs. Both elements are unlocked in a greater variety as the game
progresses.

The classes each have their strengths and weaknesses: knights are tanky and slow, mages
are squishy but zappy, and so on. These characteristics lead to different playstyles,
especially at the beginning of the game (when Vagante is at its most volatile). But
putting two players together (of the same class or different) changes the game
completely.

In fact, the multiplayer experience is so different that I have the sneaking suspicion
that the game was designed with a 2- or 3- player experience in mind. It’s hard to say,
really. Also, if you’re looking for strategy advice, a lone mage with the rest of the
party as wildings will utterly destroy. The mage gives long-range support, enchants
weapons, and makes bad potions good. The wildings just have ludicrous DPS. But I digress.

# Wrap-up

There's a lot to say about this game, but I'm trying to keep this review short. So here's
the skinny:

_Vagante_ has a variety of playable classes to suit multiple playstyles, a respectable
online experience, a slew of in-game weapons at your disposal, and a respectably grim
atmosphere that pairs well with its punishing personality.

Its difficulty curve is at times oddly tuned, and the way that its mechanics combine
leads to a playstyle that can feel luck-based and slow.

Its multiplayer experience is excellent, although it also serves to shine a light on the
weird tuning of the single player experience.

All in all, although _Vagante_ is pretty standard roguelike-stabby-platformer fare, it
ends up standing just a touch above its competition by keeping its core gameplay loop
ever at the forefront, choosing to eschew anything that isn't jumping, stabbing, or
slinging spells.

A solid experience for those seeking challenge.

---

<br>

# TL;DR

Total Hours Played: ~33 ($0.45/hr)

Game Beaten: No (not for lack of trying...)

Pros: Variety of enemies, weapons, levels, and character classes. Online play is smooth.
Consequences of in-game actions and choices feel significant. Core gameplay loop is
straightforward and well-executed.

Cons: Swingy, punishing difficulty. Moments of misplaced, high-precision platforming.
Strangely tuned difficulty curve leads to slow starts, discouraging back-to-back
attempts.

Grade: B
