---
layout: post
title: "Opinion—Gorogoa"
date: 2019-3-5
categories: reviews
---

_Gorogoa_ plays like a childhood adventure. [TODO footnote on the game's name] There's a
sense of mysticism, of seeing pieces that were in motion long before you got there. The
story, while clear at a high level, offers hints of specifics and subtlety that will
never be made available to the player. The visuals and audio within are themselves
stunning—hand-drawn plants and birds and rocks and things populate the world and offer a
reward for the curious eye.

The gameplay itself is an example of classic adventure game fare: find the right thing to
click on and do so. Yet _Gorogoa_ manages to be more than that; sometimes, the thing to
click is something in the world, but more often than not it is the world itself.

_Gorogoa_ is depicted as a four-panel view into pieces of the world. These panels can be
dragged around, and different arangements allow the main character to access new parts of
the world that were previously off limits; a staircase might link up with the border of a
frame, letting them walk up and into another frame which was previously inaccessible.
This is cool, but there's more. The individual pieces of the frames can be manipulated: a
boiler's thermometer combines with a compass's needle to form the hands on a clock,
turning a panel from day to night; a ladder turns into a set of train tracks, the crenels
of a wall turn into the rack to a toothed sun's pinion.

These puzzles sound complex, but _Gorogoa's_ strong suit is a strong match between its
formal affordances—what it looks like the player can do—and its material affordances—what
the player can actually do. Most things that look pokeable are. If it sometimes opts out
of or fails to convey interactibility, _Gorogoa_ also offers a subtle hint system for
guiding the player along without ever giving away the secret.

In so doing, the game avoids the endless problem with classic adventure games, the
problem of "guess what the developer meant for you to do." The action space rarely
includes more than half a dozen interactable items, interaction sequences are rarely more
than two or three clicks deep, and there are no items to hold onto or places where
backtracking is necessary (or even possible).

In other words, _Gorogoa_ is a straight, linear shot through the developer's carefully
constructed experience. This is its biggest strength: it doesn't overstay its welcome,
and it's usually a matter of time before you make progress. This is also it's biggest
weakness: I don't see myself replaying this game and getting much out of it (although I
would love to watch someone _else_ give it a first playthrough), and the experience feels
a little stilted at times.


Its weaknesses aside, _Gorogoa_ rewards the player for poking at its world, and puzzle
solving is rewarding simultaneously with a sense of satisfaction and a further unfolding
of stunning visuals as one is granted a further glimpse into Jason Roberts' Byzantine
world. There's a feeling of mysticism and marvel that pervades both the environment and
the people who inhabit it.

This feeling pairs well with the brevity of its experience; _Gorogoa_ is about a glimpse
at another world, and the 75 minutes or so that I spent playing it felt like a trip to a
parallel universe. In the end, the game's length and aura of mystery make it feel rather
like going to watch an independent film that's bound to become a cult classic. Whether or
not _Gorogoa_ will garner the same appeal, it is a privilege to play, at least the once.
Maybe exactly the once.

# Fin

_Gorogoa_ offers a chance to step into—and then quickly out of—a world filled with
intricate mechanisms, pensive scholars, and beautiful landscapes. Though it's short, the
experience is stunning. I wish it were longer, but sometimes it's good for these moments
to be fleeting.

Grade: A-
